Another Day,
Another Mocktail :
Recipe eBook
Simple Syrup:
Some of the following recipes call for simple
syrup. You can purchase simple syrup
online or at your local grocery store, but it's
also really easy to make.
I make mine by dissolving equal parts sugar
in water (i.e. 1/2 c sugar, 1/2 c water). You
can do this on the stovetop by adding the
sugar to the water, heating, and stirring
gently until the sugar dissolves. However, I
think the easiest way to do it is to bring
water to a boil in a microwave-safe
measuring cup and immediately add the
sugar, stirring until it dissolves.
Then, pour into a jar with a lid and store in
the fridge to keep on hand for all of your
mocktail-making endeavors!
Add pineapple, coconut milk, coconut water, &
lime juice to blender
Blend until smooth
Add ice and fruit garnish to 2 serving glasses
Pour blended mixture over ice
Garnish each glass with a lime slice & enjoy!
Piña Co-nada
Ingredients:
1 c frozen pineapple chunks
1/2 c coconut milk
1/4 c coconut water
1 lime, juiced
Garnish: 3-4 additional pineapple chunks &
1 lime slice per serving glass
Limes are a good source of active compounds that act as
antioxidants & can help protect against certain illnesses & disease.
Limes also have high levels of vitamin C & hints of other nutrients like
iron, calcium, vitamin B6, thiamine & potassium.
Nutritional highlight:
Divide frozen cherries evenly between two
serving glasses filled with ice
Add 2 shots of cherry juice & juice of one lime to
each glass
Top each glass with lime seltzer water & gently
stir
Garnish glass with lime slice & enjoy!
Cherry Limeade
Ingredients:
1/2 c frozen cherries
3/4 c black cherry juice
2 limes, juiced
1, 12 oz. can lime seltzer water
Garnish:1 lime slice per serving glass
Cherry juice contains a plant chemical called anthocyanin.
Anthocyanins help promote anti-inflammatory processes in our
bodies. Look for juices that specify "100% juice" on the label &
consider tartness. Generally, the more tart the cherry juice, the higher
in anthocyanin content it is.
Nutritional highlight:
Add thawed blueberries, mint, lemon juice, & simple
syrup to a shaker bottle
Muddle! [Pro Tip: use the back of a wooden spoon if
you don't have a muddler]
Add ice to shaker glass & shake for 10-15 seconds,
or until glass is cold to the touch
Pour strained mixture over ice, dividing it evenly
between two serving glasses
Top each glass with seltzer water, lemon slice, a few
frozen blueberries, & a fresh mint leaf, if desired
Blueberry Faux-jito
Ingredients:
3/4 c frozen blueberries, thawed
1 lemon, juiced
6-8 fresh mint leaves
2 shots simple syrup (equal parts sugar dissolved in water)
1, 12 oz. can blueberry lemon seltzer water
Garnish: blueberry, lemon slice, fresh mint leaf
Blueberries are a wonderful source of beneficial plant compounds
like fiber, vitamins & antioxidants. Additionally, blueberries have a
relatively high water content (>80%), so adding them into a meal or
snack can provide extra fluids to your day!
Nutritional highlight:
Add watermelon, pineapple, lime or lemon
juice & coconut water to blender
Blend until smooth
Add ice and fruit garnish to 2 serving glasses
Pour blended mixture over ice
Top each serving glass with seltzer water
Watermelon Wonder
Ingredients:
1/2 c cubed watermelon
1/4 c fresh pineapple chunks
1 lime or lemon, juiced
1/2 c coconut water
Garnish: 2-3 pineapple chunks per glass
1, 12 oz. can lime flavored seltzer water to top
Lycopene is a type of plant chemical (carotenoid) that provides the
red & pink pigments to fruits like, watermelon, pink grapefruit, papaya,
& tomatoes. Lycopene has antioxidant properties, which can help
protect our bodies against oxidative stress.
Nutritional highlight:
Add lemon juice, simple syrup, ginger cube &
water to blender. Blend until smooth.
Pour blended mixture equally between two
serving glasses filled with ice
Top each glass with ginger kombucha (can sub
ginger ale if desired)
Garnish each serving glass with a slice of lemon
Ginger Lemoneade
Ingredients:
1 lemon, juiced
2 shots simple syrup
1 cm cube fresh ginger, peeled
1/2 c plain water
3/4 c ginger kombucha
Garnish: 1 lemon slice per serving glass
Kombucha is a fermented tea beverage containing probiotics such
as lactic and acetic acid bacteria. Probiotics are friendly live
bacteria (or sometimes yeast) that can aid the colonization of good
microorganisms within your gut.
Nutritional highlight:
Add lemon juice, 1-inch piece of juiced lemon,
pomegranate seeds & simple syrup to shaker
Muddle ingredients in shaker using a muddler or the back
of a wooden spoon
Add pomegranate juice, green tea & ice to shaker & shake!
Pour mixture evenly between two serving glasses with ice
Garnish each glass with lemon & pomegranate seeds
Pomegranate - Green Tea
Lemonade
Ingredients:
1/2 lemon, juiced
1/4 c frozen pomegranate seeds
1.5 shots simple syrup
2 shots pomegranate juice
1/2 c green tea, pre-steeped & chilled
Garnish: 1 lemon slice & sprinkle of pomegranate seeds per
serving glass
Pomegranate seeds, also called arils, are high in fiber compared to
pomegranate juice alone. Pomegranates contain many healthpromoting vitamins (C & B9- folate) & minerals (magnesium,
phosphorus, potassium).
Nutritional highlight:
A few hours before making the drink, add 1 c diced
cucumbers to a 16 oz. mason jar & fill with water. Seal
& let sit in fridge. When time comes to assemble the drink, add lime
juice, mint leaves, simple syrup to shaker & muddle.
Add ice to shaker glass & shake for 10-15 seconds
Pour mixture evenly over two serving glasses with ice
Top each glass with cucumber water & stir
Garnish each serving glass with a lime slice & fresh
mint leaf
Cucumber Mint Cooler
Ingredients:
1 lime, juiced
5-6 fresh mint leaves
1 shot simple syrup
1.5 c cucumber water
Garnish:1 lime slice & fresh mint leaf per serving glass
Mint can be found in fresh and dried forms, & it is often known for its
cooling effect. Mint can also have a physical & emotional calming
effect for some individuals! When enjoying this mocktail, consider
taking a moment to appreciate the calming aroma!
Nutritional highlight:
Add orange juice, lemon juice, half of the diced peach,
and grape juice to shaker
Muddle until peach is fully smashed
Add ice to shaker and shake for 10-15 seconds
Pour strained mixture evenly between two serving
glasses filled with ice
Top each glass with seltzer water & garnish with peach
+ orange slices
White Peach Sangria
Ingredients:
1/2 orange, juiced
1/2 lemon, juiced
1 peach, diced
3 shots white grape juice
1, 12 oz. can of orange or peach flavored seltzer water
Garnish: handful of diced peaches & one orange slice per
serving glass
Peaches are rich in vitamin C, vitamin B3, magnesium, phosphorus,
copper, and antioxidants. Generally, the riper and fresher the peach,
the higher the antioxidant content!
Nutritional highlight:
Place frozen strawberries in mug, microwave for about
45 sec or until mostly thawed and juicy
Add lemon juice, simple syrup, water, & strawberries to
shaker & muddle until strawberries are mashed
Add ice to shaker and shake for 10-15 seconds
Pour strained mixture evenly over two glasses of ice &
garnish each with strawberry slices & a lemon round
Strawberry Lemonade
Ingredients:
1/2 cup frozen strawberries
1 lemon, juiced
1 shot simple syrup
2 shots plain water
Garnish: 1 lemon slice & a few strawberry slices per serving
glass
Citrus fruits, such as lemons, are high in vitamin C. One lemon
(depending on size) contains about 50% of the recommended
dietary intake (RDI) of vitamin C! Vitamin C also helps with iron
absorption in the body, especially iron from plant-based foods.
Nutritional highlight:
Fill two serving glasses with ice and pour 1 c orange
juice into each
Top each glass with orange seltzer water (optional,
can leave out if you don't like bubbles)
Place a spoon against the inside edge of each glass
& pour about 1 Tbsp. grenadine down the back of
the spoon for each drink (goal: grenadine settles to
bottom of glass, giving the drink a "sunrise" look)
Remember, don't mix it!
Sunrise Chaser
Ingredients:
2 c orange juice (or 6-8 oranges if
you'd like to juice them yourself)
1, 12 oz. can orange seltzer water
~ 2 Tbsp. grenadine
Garnish: 1 orange wedge per serving glass
Orange juice is a great source of vitamin C and water. When
making this mocktail, consider snacking on the remaining pieces
of orange slice. The pith (otherwise thrown away when juicing)
contains fiber that can aid in digestive regularity & gut health.
Nutritional highlight:
Place frozen mango in a mug & microwave for ~45
sec or until soft (can also use fresh mango & skip this
step)
Add mango, water & ginger root to blender & blend
until smooth
Fill two copper mugs (or regular serving glasses)
with ice and pour blended mixture on top. Squeeze
one lime into each mug & top with ginger beer,
about 3.5-4 oz/glass
Garnish each mug with a slice of fresh lime
Mango Mule
Ingredients:
1 c frozen, diced mango
1/2 cup water
1, 1 cm cube ginger root, peeled
2 limes, juiced
1, 7.5 oz. can ginger beer
Garnish: 1 lime slice per serving mug
Ginger root and ginger based beverages such as ginger beer, are
commonly known to help relieve symptoms of upset stomach,
nausea, & indigestion. The cube of fresh ginger added in this
recipe is also a good source of fiber!
Nutritional highlight:
In cocktail shaker, place blackberries, simple syrup,
mint leaves, and juice from one and a half limes
Muddle ingredients before adding ice to shaker
Shake for 10-15 seconds and pour strained mixture
between two serving glasses filled with ice
Top each glass with lime seltzer water and garnish with
fresh berries, remaining lime slices, and a few mint
leaves
Blackberry Mint No-jito
Ingredients:
1/4 c fresh blackberries
1 shot simple syrup
6-8 mint leaves
2 limes, juiced
1, 12 oz. can lime seltzer water
Garnish: Handful of fresh berries, 1 lime round, & 1-2 mint
leaves per serving glass
Blackberries, along with other darkly-colored fruits and veggies,
are known for their high antioxidant content. Blackberries are also
a great source of soluble fiber, which plays an important role in
digestion by increasing the bulk of stools and making them easier
to pass.
Nutritional highlight:
For the simple syrup, place 1/2 c water, 1/2 c sugar,
and 2 fresh sprigs of fresh rosemary in a small pot on
the stovetop
Bring to a simmer and stir until the sugar is completely
dissolved. Leave the rosemary sprigs in the pan while
syrup cools to allow it more time to absorb the herbal
flavors
Once cooled, remove sprigs of rosemary and transfer
to a jar with a lid for storage. You will have enough
syrup to make a few drinks!
Rosemary Grapefruit Spritz
For base drink:
1-2 fresh grapefruits or 3/4 c
grapefruit juice
1, 12 oz. can grapefruit seltzer water
2 sprigs fresh rosemary
For the rosemary simple syrup:
1/2 c water
1/2 c sugar
2 sprigs fresh rosemary
continued on next page...
Grapefruit contains over 15 vitamins & minerals, making this a
particularly nutrient dense citrus fruit. Grapefruit’s nutrient, fluid,
and fiber content aid its ability to improve immune function &
digestion. Caution: grapefruit can negatively interact with certain
medications such as statins. Please avoid if you have been
advised to do so by your healthcare provider.
Nutritional highlight:
To assemble the drink, fill two serving glasses with ice
and pour two shots of grapefruit juice into each
Add a shot of rosemary simple syrup to each glass (or
half of a shot per glass if you'd like the drink to be less
sweet)
Top each glass with half a can of grapefruit seltzer water,
stir, and garnish with sprig of fresh rosemary
Pour kombucha evenly between two serving glasses
filled with ice
Add 1/2 cup coconut water to each glass and a few
chunks of your favorite frozen fruit to act as flavorful ice
cubes
Stir & enjoy. This drink is a simple one, but the flavor
combinations are numerous!
Coco-Kombucha Fizz
Ingredients:
1, 16 oz. bottle of your fav kombucha
1 c coconut water
Handful of your fav frozen fruit
(I recommend selecting a fruit that matches
the kombucha flavor you've chosen)
Coconut water, not to be confused with coconut milk, contains
94% water by volume as well as several nutrients. Potassium,
magnesium, and phosphorus are among these nutrients and are
known as electrolytes. Electrolytes have numerous functions in
the body, including helping to keep us hydrated.
Nutritional highlight:
In a blender, combine fresh or thawed strawberries,
simple syrup, water, and lime juice.
Blend until smooth
In a cocktail shaker, gently muddle the basil and fill the
shaker with ice
Pour strawberry mixture into shaker and shake for
about 10-15 seconds
Fill two serving glasses with ice and divide the strained
strawberry mixture evenly between glasses
Top with seltzer water, a fresh basil leaf, and a lime
wedge if desired
Strawberry Basil Blast
Ingredients:
1/2 c strawberries (fresh or frozen will work,
but if using frozen thaw first)
1 shot simple syrup
2 shots water
1 lime, juiced
3-5 fresh basil leaves
1, 12 oz. can of seltzer water, either lime or
strawberry flavored
continued on next page...
Nutritional highlight:
This marks the end of your mocktail eRecipe Book! I hope
you've had fun sipping your way through these pages and
that you're feeling inspired to enjoy all of the alcohol-free
fun drinks your heart desires. Maybe you've even come up
with some of your own tasty combos, too!
My passion for bringing fun and satisfaction into the kitchen
doesn't stop with mocktails. In fact, what I spend most of my
time doing as a Dietitian is helping individuals heal their
relationships with food so that they can live healthfully and
free from restrictive diets. If you'd like more information
about how to work with me beyond the fun of this eBook,
check out the next page.