Bartender´s Holy Bible
Old Testament
Introduction Old Testament
When I started to write this book I didn’t know how much work I actually had in front of
me.
Now looking back to the day when I started I realise it has been a long journey. But now
finally finished I couldn’t be happier to share this with you!
This Part of the book which is referred to as the Old Testament is based upon a 100
Classic Cocktails!
I have chosen the most common and well known Top 100 classic Cocktails that every
good bartender should know.
I have tracked down the history of these 100 Classics. Who came up with the cocktail? ,
when was it created, how did it gets its name?
Because the history is something I have come to realise that most Cocktail books have
completely overlooked.
The Classic Cocktails have a very intriguing history with everything from Pirates,
Legends of Ghosts, the military, movie stars and a lot more.
In this chapter you will find the first original recipes for the cocktails also in some cases I
have added my recipe twist as the cocktails have evolved during time.
Enjoy this fascinating chapter and I hope you will have a lot of fun times trying these
Lovely Classic Cocktails!
Index Cocktails Old Testament
Aperitif Cocktails
• Americano
• Between the sheets
• Bramble
• Bronx
• Classic Martini
• Cosmopolitan
• Gibson
• Gimlet
• Hemingway Special
• Manhattan
• Margarita
• Martinez
• Negroni
• Old Fashion
• Rob Roy
• Side Car
• Spritzer classsic/Aperol Spritzer
Champagne Cocktails
• Bellini
• Champagne Julep
• Classic Champagne Cocktail
• French 75, (76, 90)
• Kir Royal
• Mimosa
• Pimms Royal
• Russian Spring Punch
Long Drinks
• Bloody Mary / Bloody Maria
• Cuba Libre
• Dark & Stormy
• El Diablo
• Harwey Wallbanger / Freddy
Fuddpacker
• Horses Neck
• Long Island Iced tea/Beach Tea
• Lynchburg Lemonade
• Moscow Mule / Jamaican Mule
• Pimms Cocktail
• Sea Breeze
• Sex on the Beach / Woo-Woo
• Tequila Sunrise
Fizzes And Collins
• Jack Collins (Apple Cognac)
• John Collins (bourbon)
• Juan Collins (Tequila)
• Mike Collins(Irish Whisky)
• Ron Collins (Rum)
• Sandy Collins( Scotch Whisky)
• Tom Collins (gin)
• Vodka Collins (vodka)
Sours
• Amaretto Sour
• Aperol Sour
• Midori Sour¨
• Vodka Sour
• Whisky Sour
Exotic Cocktails
• Mojito
• Caprinha
• Caprioska
• Mai Tai
• Singapore Sling
• Planters Punch
• Pina Colada - (Chi Chi)
• Mint Juleps
• Classic Daiquiri
• Latin Lover
• Scorpion
• White Lady
• Pink Lady (Clover Club)
• Blue Lady
• Zombie
• French Martini (Vanilla French
Martini)
Digestive Cocktails
• Brandy Alexander
• Espresso Martini
• Friar Tuck
• GodFather, GodMother,DirtyMother,
Sicilian Kiss
• Golden Cadillac
• Golden Dream
• Grasshoper / Flying Grasshoper
• Rusty Nail
• White Russian / Black Russian
Shooters
• B-52. B-53, B-54, B-55 B-57
• Kamikaze
• Purple Hooter
• Slippery Nipple(Brain Hemorage) 
Americano
The Americano dates back to the early 1860s where it was first served in the Gaspare
Camparis bar. The cocktail was originally named Milano-Torino because the Campari
came from Milan and the Cinzano came from Turin, But it changed its name due to the
Americans who took a big liking to this cocktail and in the 1900s its named changed in to
Americano. This is also the predecessor to the Negroni (See page Negoni) In the classic
recipe for a Americano its Campari with Sweet Vermouth and a splash of club soda
served on the rocks in a tumbler.
Now this recipe is good, I just think that the soda is optional. So for myself when I get an
order for a Americano I always ask if they want a splash of soda or not? then instead of
adding the soda to their drink I place the soda can on the side so the customer can
choose for himself how much they want to put in.
The classic recipe calls for an Orange twist on top, I myself like it with both an orange
and lemon twist on top. Small things like this does a hugh difference on the outcome and
i encourage you to try what suits your palate.
Name : Americano
Category : Classic
Glass : Tumbler
Ingredients : 1 shot Campari
: 1 shot Sweet Vermouth (classic recipe Cinzano)
: Splash Soda (Optional)
Method :Build on cubed ice
Garnish : Orange Twist, ( I prefer Orange and Lemon Twist)
B-52
The B-52 is a world famous shooter that most people have had in their life. Now not all
people know what is in there but they do recognize the name B-52. There is also a big
variety of B-5s out there but this is the first and most common. The B-52 is named after
US B-52 Stratorfortress a Long distance bomber. This bomber was used in the Vietnam
War. This is maybe why you are supposed to light the top on fire (for the flaming
resemblance) Were this cocktail shooter is created is uncertain and i haven’t found any
tale or facts for where it might come from, but it looks like it gained its popularity
sometime in the end of the 70s.
This drink is said to have become the favorite shooter in North London in 2009 when
arsenal striker Nicklas Bendtner changed his number from 26 to 52, earning his
nickname B52.
Now this Cocktail shooter is a Layered shot, it layers due to the different density of the
spirits in this mix. So what’s in a B-52 is Kalhua, Bayiles, and Grand Marnier. In the
beginning i used to hate making this shot due to the time it took me to layer it. Pretty
soon you learn how to do it and it’s a piece of cake.
The fastest way to do it is without the bar spoon just to take your spirits start with the
kalhua put in 1/2 shot, then take the bayiles with a speed pourer and hold the small hole
on the pourer to make it pour slower, and push the pourer against the side of the shooter
glass so its slowly drips down and layers perfectly, Now the Grand Marnier is the one
part that easiest mixes with the rest and also this is the part you want to mix the least
because this is the part that you want to light on fire. So her I do use a bar spoon to
layer the Grand Marnier.
The measurements I have learned is:
Name : B-52
Glass : Shooter glass
Ingredients : 1/2 shot Kalhua
: 1/2 shot Bailys
: 1/4 shot Grand Marnier
Method : Layer in that Order
Garnish : Light the Grand Marnier on fire
Sometimes people up the measures that’s ok just have to have bigger shooter glasses,
Also if you have problem lighting the grand marnier on top, its sometimes easier if you
heat up the grand marnier before layering it on top. Some other versions of B-5s is
B-57 Instead of using Grand Marnier you use Sambuca and the order is
Kalhua,Sambuca, Bailys (check order)
B-53 Vodka on top instead of grand marnier
B-54 Comes with Amaretto instead of Grand Marnier and the layering comes in different
(Double Check layering)
B-55 Same as B-52 but instead of Grand Marnier it comes with Absinth on top
Bellini
This lovely Aperitif has come to be one of the more recognized one around the world
that most bartenders know, It’s easy to make and the taste is just lovely. Today there is
100s of variations out there from strawberry, Raspberry, Watermelon, Pear, Apple and
so on. But the Classic is with the White peach.
It all started sometime between 1935-1948 in Venice Italy in Harrys Bar, by a man called
Giuseppe Cipriani. Because of its pink color, which reminded Cipriani of the color of the
toga of a saint in a painting by 15th century Venetian artist Giovanni Bellini, he named
the drink the Bellini.
Easiest way today to make this drink would be to have the White peach puree bought,
which most bars today do. Another way is to buy the peaches yourself and then nicely
mix it up with sugar and blend it to your own puree. Of course making it fresh for yourself
will most likely deliver a better end product. Because of the freshness of the peach will
most likely be recognized when drinking the drink. But the classic Recipe is
Name : Bellini (White Peach)
Category : Classic
Glass : Champagne Flute
Ingredients : 2 shots White peach Puree
: Toped up with Prozeco (or Champagne, Sparkling wine)
Method : Pour Puree into Chilled glass gently top up with Prozeco and gentle
stir
Garnish : None (I like it with a small peach in the bottom of the glass as
garnish)
Now this is the classic recipe. As you can see it’s very straight on. Regards to the
proseco, maybe you will not have it in the bar that you are in so you can always use
either Champagne or Sparkling wine. What I like to do is to add a few drops of Peach
liquor into the drink as well this for me enhance the flavor even more (Unless you make
your own Peach puree which it’s nice to blend in a small amount of the Peach Liqour
there already and then no need to add later) Also if you have the chance it’s nice to
have a small peach as garnish it just brings a bit liveliness to the drink.
Between the sheets
This classic drink you don't see too often anymore. I haven't had an order for this drink in
many years; it is a shame though because it’s a nice forgotten classic that I strongly
remember from my bartender training.
This cocktail was created in the 1930s in Harrys bar in Paris. Don't know who was the
creative inventor of this drink but happy that someone came up with it.
I assume that this drink is based on the "Side Car see page Side Car" because its
similarity. Also other drinks have been invented from this base as the "Lemon
Drop"(which contains Vodka, Cointreau, Lemon juice and sugar).
My teachers gave me a phrase during my training to help me remember this drink that
still today is in my mind and helps me remembering the drink ingredients.
The phrase is "LBC Sour" which refers to the Light Rum, Brandy and Cointreau and
then the Sour meaning lemon and sugar that is used in the cocktail.
Name : Between the sheets
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini glass
Ingredients : 1 shot rum
: 1 shot Brandy
: 1/2 shot lemon juice
: 1/2 shot Cointreau
: Dash of sugar
Method : Shake and strain into chilled glass
Garnish : Lemon twist and half a sugar rim
Bloody Mary
Of all the drinks in the world this is probably the one you can make in most different
ways!
There is so many recipes out there that you don’t even have time to try them all in a Life
time. Now some recipes is better than others (Defiantly) but everyone have their own
taste and with this drink you can mix in almost every interesting thing that you have
laying around.
So now who invented the first one, or the base for this drink? Well there are 2 big
candidates for this drink. One is Fernand Petiot he claims he invented this drink working
in a New York bar which later became Harrys New York bar.
Another story is that an actor named George Jessel created this drink around 1927, His
recipe was basically Vodka with Tomato juice. He says he invented it a day when he
was feeling Hangover and wanted some nutrition from the tomato juice, but what he
really needed was the vodka,There we go the first base for the bloody Mary.
Now Fernand Petiot says that when he worked in King Cole bar in 1934 at the St Regis
in New York George Jessels drink became popular but for the New Yorkers something
was missing, they said that it was a bit bland. So Fernand Petiot then added Cayenne
pepper, Black Pepper, Salt, Worcestershire sauce, Lemon and a dash of Tabasco. The
drink became an instant Hit. Now it looks to me like George Jessel was the founder of
the foundation of a bloody mary (Although Highly doubt that he was the first man in the
world drinking Vodka Tomato juice?) Then Fernand Petiot did take this base to a new
level and actually created what we today call a Bloody Mary. So what goes in to a
bloody mary today? Well it’s a vodka based drink, I Have seen it been made with normal
vodka, Pepper Vodka, Citron Vodka, Bacon Vodka and so on, i have seen it with Lemon
juice and Lime juice, I have seen it with salt, Celery salt, Special ocean salt, White
Pepper, Black Pepper, cucumber , Olives, horseradish, Red wine, Port Wine, Sherry,
Wasabi, Celery, Coriander, Tomato Juice, Fresh Tomatoes, Worcestershire, Tabasco,
Chilli, even Mustard, and a lot more, do you get the picture? There is so much you can
put into this drink and it’s not wrong you just need to find a balance in there. Let’s start
by the classic Recipe.
Name : Bloody Mary
Category : Classic
Glass : Hiball/Collins
Ingredients : 2 shots Vodka
: 2 pinches Salt
: 2 Pinches Black Pepper
: 2-3 drops Tabasco
: 1/2 shot lemon juice
: Dash of Worcestershire sauce
: top up Tomato juice
Method : Build and stir on cubed ice
Garnish : Celery
This is pretty much the classic recipe, I started making this version but pretty soon my
colleagues showed me some different versions that I quickly took a liking to, I have
probably changed my recipe 10 times depending on the bar I work in and my taste buds
changed over the years. I have found that this recipe for me is just divine and a winner
so far for me.
Name : Bloody Mary
Category : Classic
Glass : Hiball/Collins
Ingredients : 2 shots Citron Vodka
: 2 big Pinches of Celery Salt
: 3 - 4 Big Pinches of Black pepper
: 3-5 drops Tabasco (depending on how hot you want it)
: 2/3 shot lemon juice
: Dash of Worcestershire
: 2-4 Tomato wedges (muddled)
: 3-6 leaves of coriander
: Dash of Red wine
: Top up Tomato Juice
: Small splash of Sugar syrup
Method : Build and muddle the Fresh tomato, then stir on cubed ice
Garnish : Thin Tomato slices, Lemon Slice, Coriander leaf, and Grind Black
Pepper on top
This version is slightly more time consuming then the original and there is some tricks to
how to make it, first why did I chose this ingredients? Well they do complement each
other very well.
When I make this drink today i first put in the fresh tomato, (I take off the hard skin on
the outside part of the tomato first) then i muddle that with the salt, Black Pepper,
Worcestershire and Tabasco. When its nicely broken down I put in the coriander, the
trick here is to give it a quite gentle muddle because it will quickly (easily) release its
aromas, now put in the rest of the products and give it a nice stir. Also it’s nice to give
the coriander Leaf on top a gentle slap before putting it on as garnish, to give the full
sensation of the drink.
This drink is a beautiful cocktail when made right and is a very popular choice for people
to drink, Also it is one of the best Hangover Remedies that I am aware of. If you change
the vodka to Tequila you get a Bloody Maria
Blue Lady
The Blue Lady cocktail originates from the White Lady (see page White Lady) the only
difference is that instead of Cointreau it changed into Blue Curaco.
Now as I have described in the White lady recipe the name comes from a woman who
had an affair and is now dead and now hunts the castle.
The Blue lady is also based on a story of a ghost! It’s even been on the NBC series
"unsolved mysteries".
The legend of the Blue Lady is the classic tale of lost love. The most common version
tells of a married lady, usually dressed in blue, who was carrying on an illicit affair with a
handsome ladies man who played the piano at the bar in Moss Beach Distillery in
California. She was unaware that her lover had another female interest even as her love
for him depend with romantic moonlight walks on the beach and secret rendezvous at a
hotel next to the bar.
During a violet storm late one November night she died in an automobile accident on her
way to a tryst, since then, she has been seen on many occasions wandering aimlessly
along the beach and searching the restaurant for her lover.
Name : Blue Lady
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini glass
Ingredients : 1 1/2 shot of Gin
: 1/2 shot Blue Curaco
: 1/2 shot of lemon juice
Method : Shake and fine strain into chilled glass
Garnish : None (I like it with a small lemon zest)
Bramble
This drink I think every bartender have been in love with or still are a bit in love with, it’s
easy to make goes quick and it is an excellent taste.
I have people who comes to me and say that they drink anything as long as it’s not Gin
based and just because they say that I have made on many occasion this drink just to
play with them and the outcome has been the same every time. Oh my god what is that I
love it!. Now that is how good this drink is.
This drink comes from a man called Dick Bradsell and he came up with this drink in
1984. I have looked into it and found it that in Jerry Thomas book there is a recipe that is
very similar, the only change is that he uses a raspberry liqour and today we use creme
de mure (Black berry liqour)also he used Holland gin instead of London Dry Gin. So did
it come from Jerry Thomas or not? Well no matter if it did or not it was Dick Bradsell that
made this drink explode and go in to every single cocktail menu in the whole London.
His recipe goes like this:
Glass : Tumbler
Ingredients : 2 shots Gin
: 1 shot lemon juice
: 3/4 shot sugar syrup
: Float Creme de Mure

Method : Shake well and strain into glass on crushed ice gently float creme
de mure on top
Garnish : lemon slice and blackberry
This recipe is the same as I learned and in all my time as bar tendering I have never felt
like changing it. I have tried with instead of creme de mure with casis,to chamboard and
so on but it’s not as good as the creme de mure. I do love it like this and i haven’t felt
any reason to change it.
What you need to think about is to have a nice gin in there that works for your liking. I do
like it with plymouth gin, also the quality of your creme de mure must be a good one!
Brandy Alexander
This old classic is definitely worth mentioning. It was in the 20th century that this cocktail
became big. And it comes from its predecessor Alexander which is similar but with gin
as base instead of cognac. It’s said that the Brandy Alexander was invented in 1922 for
the wedding celebration of Princess Mary and Lord Lascelles in London.
For me this drink works well after a heavy meal instead of a dessert. I think it works well
together with the punch of the cognac, but also the chocolate comes thru and then the
cream easy it all down, just to finish with that sprinkle of nutmeg on top it’s a good
digestive cocktail. The classic recipe states:
Name : Brandy Alexander
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini glass
Ingredients : 1 shots Cognac
: 1 shot Creme de Caco Brown (not white)
: 1 shot Cream (Half& Half is Preferred)
Method : Shake and Strain into Chilled Martini Glass
Garnish : Sprinkle the Nutmeg
This is the classic recipe that I have found I have changed the measurements slightly
and also gone with the Half& Half mix just makes a better balance in the drink. Also
when it comes to the garnish I do just to make it a bit more interesting is that you can
take 2 straws and put in a cross on the Martini glass and sprinkle the nutmeg over the
drink and you get a nice Cross of nutmeg as garnish.
Name : Brandy Alexander
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini glass
Ingredients : 1 1/4 shots Cognac
: 3/4 shot Creme de Caco Brown (not white)
: 1 shot Cream (Half& Half is Preferred)
Method : Shake and Fine Strain into Chilled Martini Glass
Garnish : Sprinkle the Nutmeg (to make the cross)
Bronx
The Bronx cocktail is one of the big classics as well although it doesn’t get ordered that
often anymore which is a shame; it’s becoming one of the big but forgotten ones.
This drink at its time was voted one of the10 most famous cocktail in 1934.
This Cocktail is said to have been invented by a barman called Johnnie Solon, working
in a Manhattan hotel. The Story goes that he was working one day and a big cocktail
that was a popular choice was called the Duplex (Blend between sweet and dry
vermouth with orange bitters) When a man came to the bar to ask Johnnie Solon to
make him something new!
Solon then put 2 shots of gin and 1 shot of fresh orange juice and then put a dash of
sweet and dry vermouth. Shoke it up and strained it into the glass, without tasting it he
presented it to the customer saying you are a pretty good judge you tell me!
The guest was very impressed by this new fancy cocktail. Very quickly this drink spread
and became the new drink to drink! The name in Johnnie Solon words is that he came
up with the name because he had been to the Bronx Zoo a couple of days before.
Where he saw a lot of unfamiliar animals and remembered about all the story’s he heard
in the bar that people seen so many animals after drinking a few cocktails.. Hence the
name Bronx.
Name : Bronx
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini
Ingredients : 2 shots Gin
: 1/2 shot Sweet Vermouth
: 1/4 shot Dry Vermouth
: 1 shot Fresh orange juice
Method : Shake Strain into Chilled martini glass
Garnish : Orange Twist
This is the old classic recipe that I have learned and I haven’t changed anything with it
think it’s good just the way it is. Some of my friends like it with a drop of orange bitters in.
Caipirinha
This is a world famous drink coming from Brazil where this drinks make the people
dance all night in the streets of Rio. It has become Brazils National Drink and now lately
it’s been popular all around the world.
So how was this drink invented? Well Caipirinha is an easy drink to make with Sugar
Lime and Cachaca (Brazilian Cane Spirit). Brazil makes about 200 million litters of
Cachaca every year. It’s said that the people working at Brazils sugar plantations looked
for a smooth way to drink the Cachaca that they were helping to produce. Another story
is that the Portuguese slave traders returning to Europe would use lime to prevent
scurvy, which they added to the cachaca together with a bit of sugar.
Now how do you make a Caipirinha? Well the classic recipe is:
Category : Classic
Glass : Tumbler
Ingredients : 2 Shots Cachaca
: 1 whole Lime cut into pieces
: 2 bar spoons Sugar

Method : Muddle Lime and sugar put in Crushed ice top up cachaca and stir
Garnish : Lime Wheel/ Lime Wedge (Lime wedge good if you want another
squeeze)
Now this recipe is gorgeous you don’t need to change this it works and it always will.
I have changed small things but in the end pretty much the same, It’s just easier to keep
it a bit Consistent with the different places you work in, if you do it my way.
Something that is important to think about is don’t muddle the lime to hard it will get
bitter. It’s nice to muddle the Lime with the sugar so the sugar dissolves in the process.
Also use a nice cachasa.
As you can see in my recipe i have used Half of lime instead of whole but instead added
Freshly squeezed lime juice, this I have done so i don’t have to muddle the lime to hard
to avoid getting the bitterness out of the skin.
Also I have added a little bit of sugar syrup just to get the sweetness up, due to more
lime juice and also because it’s hard to get all the Sugar to dissolve, so putting sugar
syrup in there you will get the sweetness in there and in the end perfect balance.
Remember everyone has a different palate where some people like it more sour and
some prefer a bit sweeter, Please ask the customer what they like before making the
drink. If someone wants a Caipiroska it’s the same recipe but you do change it to Vodka
instead of Cachaca.
My recipe
Category : Classic
Glass : Tumbler
Ingredients : 2 Shots Cachaca
: 1/2 Lime (3 - 4 Wedges)
: 2 barspoons Sugar
: 1/2 shot of Lime juice (freshly squeezed)
: 1/2 shot Sugar syrup

Method : Muddle Lime and sugar put in Crushed ice top up Cachaca and stir
Garnish : Lime Wheel/ Lime Wedge (Lime wedge good if you want another
squeeze)
Classic Champagne Cocktail
The Champagne Cocktail is referred to worldwide as the "Classic Champagne Cocktail"
with its simplicity but yet elegance and class first recipe citation for a Champagne
cocktail goes back to the "The Bar Tenders Guide" written by Jerry Thomas in 1862
In 1899 The Classic Champagne cocktail was the winner of a New York cocktail
Competition
And after this it became a world-wide known drink and made its way in to the classic
cocktails all over the world.
For me the best way to do this cocktail is to have a chilled Champagne flute, and then
you put a napkin on the top of the flute. This is for putting a white sugar cube on top so
you can coat it with angostura bitters without getting anything in the glass or making a
mess.
When the sugar cube is nicely coated with angostura bitters you simply remove the
napkin and the sugar cube will fall into the glass. To make it even more simple for you,
put your cognac in (some people use brandy but i think because it is a Champagne
cocktail and champagne is from France and so is cognac so that’s what you should use
Cognac to get the best possible result) to 3/4 of the sugar cube and then you put a
splash of Grand Marnier to the top of the sugar cube.
Now slowly fill up with champagne because of the sugar cube in it will easily bubble
over. But if you have some patients it will be fine i wouldn`t put any garnish in mine but a
friend of mine likes it with a small orange zest just for people who want to try.
Category : Classic
Glass : Champagne flute
Ingredients : 1 White Sugar cube coated with angostura bitters
: 1/2 shot Cognac (Brandy)
: Dash Grand Marnier (Cointreau)
: Top up champagne
Method : Coat the white sugar cube with angostura bitters place in
champagne flute then cognac, grand marnier (Cointreau) champagne
Garnish : None (Some people like it with a small orange zest)

The Classical Martini
There is many stories of how this drink came to be many people belive it comes from the
cocktail called Martinez, and then evolved to the martini, one story goes like this:
Some New Yorker sources insist that a bartender at the Knickerbocker Hotel, named
Martini di Arma di Taggia invented the Martini in 1911 for Americas first billionaire, John
D , Rockefeller m co founder of the Standard Oil Company. True or not, it seems to be
the first time the Martini made its way to Wall Street and then Madison Avenue, where
the "three Martini lunch" was standard among executives for decades.
The first Martini was made with gin and not with vodka it wasn’t until 1950s vodka
became popular in the American market and then became a more popular choice in a
Martini then gin.
So what questions does a bartender need to ask the person ordering Martini these
days?
First question would be would you like a vermouth or a cocktail? This is because of the
Martini range that exists which is vermouths (Martini Dry, Martini Rosso, Martini Bianco)
if you go to Italy today and order a Martini and no specification you most likely end up
getting a Martini Bianco.
If the person who ordered a Martini answers you that he/she would like a vermouth you
need to ask them which one they would prefer the Dry,Rosso or Bianco, most common
would be the Bianco maybe with soda or a lemonade.
If the person orders a cocktail you need to ask if they would like Gin or Vodka (Ask them
if they would like any specific Gin or Vodka) Remember the better Base the better the
end result will be.
After this you need to ask how dry the person would like there Martini and the dryer they
want them the less dry vermouth you will have to put in.
Final question will be if they would like a Lemon zest or Olive.
In my opinion you never shake your Martini it’s supposed to be stirred to perfection not
to break the ice and water it down but to get it supper chilled but with the bite of either
the gin/vodka still in there. So people who order a Shaken Martini from me I’ll ask them if
I can just give them a spirit on the rocks and let the ice water it down for them. Also in
my opinion you shouldn’t use any other vermouth then the Nolly Prat from France that
for me gives the best results.
There is some different ways when it comes to making this drink one would be to put
your vermouth inside the martini glass to coat its side and then discard the vermouth,
this is a quite dry version of a martini. Some bartenders put it in the shaker stir it and
then discard the vermouth only to have had it in contact with the ice that will be used
when chilling the spirit. Some use both. My self-have tried many ways but today I have
found my favourite way of doing it. I put a very small amount into the shaker would say
about 2-3 ml, then I put in the Gin/Vodka between 2.5 shots to 3shots depending on the
size of the martini glass. Best way to get this cocktail perfect would be to have your
Gin/Vodka in a freezer so you take it out ice cold so when you start stirring you don’t
water your drink down. Also very important is that your Glass needs to be chilled and the
best is if you also have a freezer for your glasses. So when you put down the cocktail in
front of the customer the glass is totally frosted and steaming from coming in to a hotter
environment.
Category: Classic
Glass: Martini Glass
Ingredients: 2.5-3 Shots Gin/Vodka
Dash Dry vermouth
(When Dirty add 2-3 bar spoons of Olive spade)
Method: Stir Until Ice Cold then Fine Strain in to chilled Martini Glass
Garnish: Olive or Lemon Twist
A very nice little twist that I love is to do this Martini with Grey Goose Vodka, and then
instead of lemon zest you change it to an Orange zest, Or with a Gin Martini you use
Tanquray Gin and do a Grapefruit twist small things like this make a big difference .Also
let’s not forget the Dirty Martini. The Dirty Martini is with a bit of olive spade, If the
customer ask for a dirty martini you just add 2-3 bar spoons of olive spade and then
proceed as usual. Garnish will of course turn into an olive as well( can even put 2-3
olives when dirty has been ordered)
Tom Collins
This great classic first showed up in the book by Jerry Thomas in 1876. The name I think
he came up with after the big hoax in New York Pennsylvanian that toke place in 1874.
Where people would then start a conversation with have you seen "Tom Collins?" of
course people would reply with sorry i don’t know a Tom Collins! This was pretty much
the joke to get people to look for someone who were not really there hence the name on
the Drink Tom Collins. The Recipe from Jerry Thomas book goes like this
Category : Classic
Glass : Use Large Bar glass
Ingredients : take 5 or 6 dashes of sugar syrup
: Juice of small lemon
: 1 large wine glass of Gin
: 2-3 Lumps of ice
: top up with soda water

Method : Shake well and strain into glass top up with soda
Garnish : Lemon
Now this is not that easy to understand I mean how big is a wine glass? 3 lumps of ice?
well that’s why the cocktail recipe broken down in an easier form look like this
Category : Classic
Glass : Hiball
Ingredients : 1/2 shot sugar syrup
: 1/2 shot lemon juice
: 2 shots of Gin
: top up with soda water

Method : Shake well and strain into glass top up with soda, on cubed ice
Garnish : Lemon
This is a great Recipe and i haven’t felt that anything should be changed in this recipe i
like it just the way it is, Now there is a whole family of Collins out there, All of them looks
the same you just need to change the base spirit.
 Tom Collins (Gin)
 John Collins (Bourbon)
 Sandy Collins (Scotch Whiskey)
 Mike Collins (Irish Whiskey)
 Jack Collins (Apple Brandy)
 Juan Collins (Tequila)
 Vodka Collins (vodka)
 Ron Collins (Rum)
Cosmopolitan
Another big cocktail that people drink today, although this cocktail is relatively young
compared to the others out there.
This drinks history is believe it or not also in dispute after people have tried to come to
an agreement of who came up with this cocktail! It has now been broken down to give
credit to a certain amount of people. It says it all started in the 1970s it was created in
Provincetown, Massachusetts for the gay community.
Neal Murray is one being named for being the funder of the cosmopolitan who worked in
the Cork & Cleaver Steak house in Minneapolis in 1975
John Caine, owner of several popular bars in San Francisco and cosmopolitan expert
partially credits the upsurge in cocktails during the 1970s to the cosmo being served at
fern bars
Cheryl Cook once said "What over whelmed me was the number of people who ordered
Martinis just to be seen with a martini glass in their hand. It was on this realization that
gave me the idea to create a drink that everyone could palate and was visually stunning
in that classic glass”. This is what the cosmopolitan was based on.
Melissa Huffsmith is an important person involved in the creation of the drink. When
working at The Odeon in 1987/1988 she developed a slightly different version of what
they had been doing before she used citron vodka, Cointreau and freshly squeezed lime
juice and then just a splash off the cranberry juice. Just barley pink she used the name
Pink Lemonade Pink.
Well there is the history. What made this drink so super popular though, is from the
show “Sex and the city”, when the girls went out drinking cocktails and ordering Cosmos.
After that this cocktail exploded around the world. It is a fairly simple cocktail to mix, but
yet again a drink that you can get in many different ways and there are the good ones
and the bad! So according the last recipe from Melissa Huffsmith it goes like this
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini
Ingredients : 1 1/2 shot Citron Vodka
: 1 squeezed Lime wedge (Leave in shaker)
: 1/2 shot Cointreau
: 3/4 shot cranberry juice
Method : Shake and fine strain
Garnish : Flamed orange zest
This recipe will always work its good and its well balanced and I do like it. It was not until
a short while ago that we came up with this and realized that it did work quite nicely. We
had no citron vodka for the night and we were about to inform everyone that cosmos
was not on the menu for the evening, when we found a bottle of Skyy Orange in the
back. We thought we make one just for the fun of it and guess what it came out very 
nice! slightly more orange but we did adjust it with 2 more squeezes of lime instead and
the balance was fabulous. I Know from London that sometimes we used to use a bit of
Orange bitters with the cosmopolitan.
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini
Ingredients : 1 1/2 shot Orange Vodka
: 3 squeezed Lime wedges (Leave in shaker)
: 1/2 shot Cointreau
: 3/4 shot cranberry juice
Method : Shake and fine strain
Garnish : Flamed orange zest (with a small squeeze of lime on top)
Cuba Libre
The Cuba Libre cocktail history, has 2 paths where 2 big Rum companies fights for
which rum was the first to be in the drink. It’s between Bacardi Rum and Havana Club
Rum. Bacardi claims that it happened during the Spanish-American War at the turn of
the century. When a large numbers of American troops arrived in Cuba.
Bacardi Story:
One afternoon, a group of soldiers from the U.S Signal Corps were gathered in a bar in
Old Havana, then a Captain Russel came in and ordered Bacardi Gold rum and
Coca-Cola on ice with a wedge of lime.
The captain drank it with such a pleasure that the other soldiers started to drink the
same and very quickly it became a very popular drink. The soldiers suggested that they
toast iPor Cuba Libre! In celebration of the newly freed Cuba. Now there is a few small
problem with this story the war ended in 1898 and that’s when the soldiers left as well
and the story from coca cola is that it didn’t come to Cuba before 1900. If this is true or
not i can’t say with 100% guarantee
Havana Story:
Havana Club claims that 1900 when Coca-Cola came to Cuba for the first time that was
when the drink was invented using the Havana club rum.
The originally recipe then is basically 2 shots of Rum (Bacardi/Havana Club) 1 squeeze
of lime top up with Coca Cola ( now those days Coca-Cola actually had cocaine in it so
maybe this is also why this drink became so popular so fast). There is also a recipe
dating back when they say they used a few drops of bitters in there as well.
My self this days like a Cuba Libre every now and then specially on a hot summer day
by the beach, or when you are sitting in those Pool bars. My choice of ingredients would
be a nice aged Rum with a half of freshly squeezed Lime, and make sure you get some
of the meat from the lime into the drink this will put some extra character into the drink!
and top it up with Coca-Cola
Category : Classic
Glass : Hiball/Collins
Ingredients : 2 shots Rum
 Half of freshly sqeezed Lime
 Top up Coca Cola
Method : Build and Stir on cubed ice
Garnish : Lime Wheel / Lime wedge (Lime wedge is good if they want another
lime sqeeze in there)
Daiquiri
This World-Wide known drink has quite the long history.
No one knows for sure where it actually came from or who came up with it. It’s said in
some stories that it started a very long time ago when Sailors was drinking Rum with
Lime/Lemon with some water and a bit of sugar in.
I think the base of this drink started here, in time it then evolved into what we call a
Daiquiri.
The man that have been recognized as the creator of the Daiquiri is called Jennings Cox
and the story is that in the beginning of 1900 he was entertaining a few American guests
and suddenly ran out of Gin, He then substituted the Gin with Rum and served Rum with
Lime and Sugar on crushed ice for his guests. The people loved it. This was named after
a Beach not to far from Santiago and also an Iron Mine that was in the neighborhood
and they were both called Daiquiri.
Rum had been around way before Jenning Cox used it in this drink. And due to the Lime
and Sugar plants that was around I am sure this drink actually was already popular drink
amongst slaves, sailors and so on, But that Jenning Cox served it and named it might
very well be true.
Now days you don’t really serve the Daiquiris as you did back in the days. The way that
they used to serve it was as Jenning Coxs recipe was. Rum with Lime and a bit of sugar
on crushed ice.. (Very Famillar to a Caipirinha see page Caipirinha) Now it’s more
common to shake the ingredients and then serve it straight up in a martini glass( Some
people like it on the rocks) Also some places Likes the Blended Daiquiris it feels like
they are trying to take it back to the classic way but instead of blending it with a spoon
they use there blender. For me this becomes to much of a slush puppy and not my style.
I go with the shaken version served neat in a Martini Glass.
Today there is 100s of different Daiquiris out there with different fruits from Strawberry’s,
Bananas the possibilities feels like they are almost endless. Now some big Daiquiri
drinkers in the days was Ernest Hemingway he later got a few drinks named after him
like the Hemingway Special(See page Hemingway Special) or the Papa Doble who are
all based on the Daiquiri.
Another famous person who loved a good Daiquiri is John F Kennedy. The drink has
become so big and loved specially in America that they even celebrate National Daiquiri
day which is the 19th of July every Year.
(See next page for recipe)
Name : Daiquiri
Glass : Martini
Ingredients : 2 shot Rum
: 1 shot of Fresh Lime Juice
: 1/2 shot of sugar
Method : Shake and then stain into chilled martini glass
Garnish : Lime Wedge
Remember when doing this drink that it’s a few ingredients but not always easy to get
them in balance. It depends on which rum will you be using? Is it a sweeter rum, dark
rum, white rum or golden rum? What’s the character of the rum this is usually the best
place to start to get the rest right. If you taste the rum you want to use in your Daiquiri by
itself and really think what character it has then you add the Lime and sugar accordingly
to get the perfect balance.
Dark and Stormy
This drink is a very easy drink to make, although its simplicity it’s something that I really
enjoy drinking.
This drink works in many different situations and with many different foods surprisingly
enough.
This drink is popular by all people all around the world from men, to women , to
celebrities in fact that I have served this drink to Quentin Tarantino when I was working
in London, He came in on 3 different occasions in the club that i was working in and
every time he wanted a Dark and Stormy. Luckily for me you can’t really do this drink
wrong so i managed to make him happy with the drinks.
Although this drink is such an easy drink it has a complex history and that is due to the
Copy write law that Goslings Rum have made on this drink. This cocktail is trademarked
to Goslings Rum and there have been words that Goslings rum have threatened to Sue
Clubs, or other advertising when saying that they are making a Dark and Stormy but with
a different Rum. I don’t know if any action actually has been done or it just stopped at
the threats. Anyway I have to say that the Gosling Rum makes an Excellent Dark and
Stormy due to its character it fits very well, (Quentin Tarantino seemed to agree with
me)
The name I don’t know where it comes from but one story goes that a bartender once
served a sailor and instead of adding the rum first he put in the ginger beer , and then
floated the dark rum on top. The sailor then said that "That’s a storm cloud neither a fool
nor a dead man would sail under" There is no evidence that this story is actually true but
I think it’s a good story. So what’s in this cocktail?
Name : Dark and Stormy
Glass : Hiball
Ingredients : 2 Shots of Dark Rum (Goslings)
: 1-2 squeezes of Lime
: toped up with Ginger Beer
Method : Build on cubed ice
Garnish : Lime Wedge
El Diablo
The El Diablo wasn’t a drink I first encountered during my cocktail training over the
classics, but rather a cocktail I picked up after working and reading a lot of cocktail
books.
After having one or two of these delicious drinks I started to look into the drink a bit more
only to having problem finding out where it actually came from. The first i can find
mentioned about this drink is in Trader Vics book in 1946, where he writes it like this
"I hate like hell to bring up unpleasant things, at a time like this but go easy on this one,
because its tough on your running board." The 3 books that he have published the
recipe has changed little in every one from the first in 1946 to the second in 1968 and
the 3rd in 1972, There isn’t much difference just some measures being played with.
What’s interesting is though that in the first book the cocktail was called Mexico El
Diablo and then it named changed to just El Diablo, This is not the most common drink
but i think it’s a great classic and specially if someone wants a tequila based drink but
something out of the ordinary,
The recipe that I have learned is the same that’s published in the 1946 Trader Vics Book
of Food and Drink"
Category : Classic
Glass : Hiball
Ingredients : 2 shots of Tequila
 3/4 shot of Lime juice
 1/4 shot of Creme de casis
 Top up Ginger Ale
Method : Build and Stir on Cubed Ice
Garnish : Lime Wedge
What I do on this drink is that I will just float the Casis on top of the drink and slowly let it
sink down in the drink.
Espresso Martini
This Newly made classic has become one of the really big drinks these days. There is of
course a big argument about this cocktail as to so many others that we seen so far, after
checking various books and internet pages and asking friends. The story that is the most
common one is this.
A Super model in London had been on a Cat walk all day, In the evening she was tired
but a bit tense and wanted to go for a drink she stopped at a bar in the Soho District,
When she got to the bar she explained to the bartender that she was exhausted and
wanted something different, The barman then mixed up the Espresso Martini. The
supermodel loved the drink and told here friends and soon the drink spread thru London
and became a world popular drink.
Now this drink also have a lot of different ways on how to be made today, depending on
which place you go to. Some do it with Flavored vodka, Some with Kalhua, some with
Tia maria, a few do it with some Caco as well in there a few do it with coffee instead of
espresso, and a few top it up with cream on top. Now the classic recipe that I have
learned and have seen popped up most under my research is this
Name : Espresso Martini
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini glass
Ingredients : 1 shot Vodka
: 1 shot Kalhua
: 1 shot Espresso
Method : Shake and Fine Strain into Chilled Martini Glass
Garnish : 3 coffee beans
Now this is an easy straight forward recipe that you don’t really need to change , Sure
it’s nice to put some hand wiped cream on top although can become a bit much after a
while.
There is no need for any extra sugar in this drink due to the Kalhua is quite sweet as it
is. Important factor in this drink thou is the espresso (need to be freshly made) and not
be substituted for Coffee or anything else like that.
French Martini
The French Martini is a recognized and also quite well known cocktail. The Name
French martini comes from that it’s made with Chamboard which is a French berry
Liquor, It’s said that the Chamboard Company came up with this cocktail to help them
promote their product. I have to say that they did succeed.
Today you can see Chamboard in most bars around the world and its used in a lot of
different cocktails, Also the chamboard bottle is also something that always stand out in
your bar. For some reason there will always be a customer or someone in the staff who
wants to know what the chamboard is" due to the design of the bottle" Now this cocktail
is easy and quick to make all you need is the following
Name : French Martini
Glass : Martini Glass
Ingredients : 1 1/2 shot of Vodka
: 1/2 shot Chamboard
: 1 shot of Pineapple juice
Method : Shake and strain into chilled glass
Garnish : None (I like it with 3 raspberries)
Now this is ok and the way it was meant to be made. After doing a "Few" of this I came
up with a touch to this drink that does make it a bit more tastier. As always fresh
products always brings out the best in the drinks so what i did was to put a bit of fresh
pineapple and muddled that together with 4-6 raspberries. This is something i strongly
suggest you to try. Also if you want to change this drink into a French Vanilla Martini
you change the normal vodka into Vanilla vodka
Name : French Martini
Glass : Martini Glass
Ingredients : 1 1/2 shot of Vodka (If French Vanilla Martini change to Vanilla
Vodka)
: 1/2 shot Chamboard
: 1 shot of Pineapple juice
: 2-3 chunks of Fresh Pineapple
: 4-6 Fresh raspberries
Method : Muddle pineapple and raspberries, Shake and fine strain into chilled
glass
Garnish : 3 Raspberries
Friar Tuck
This old goody Digestive cocktail is one of many that have been forgotten. This cocktail I
learned during my training in the Chelsea academy of bar tendering. When we first
made this Digestive Cream based drink I didn’t expect to much, but to my surprise the
outcome was fantastic. It is a great taste with the blends of hazelnut and Cacao from the
Creme de Caco (Brown) blended with the cream.
I do love hazelnuts and together with chocolate it just becomes better, and to weaken it
down a nice shot of Half& Half, So far i haven’t meet any bartender that actually have
known this drink when i have specifically asked for it. But it’s not really a problem
because the ingredients a very common and also pretty straight forward so it’s easy to
give the measurements to the bartender and he/she will easily make it for you.
Name : Friar Tuck
Glass : Martini glass
Ingredients : 1 1/2 shot Frangelico
: 1/2 shot Creme de caco (Brown)
: 1 shot of Half& Half
Method : Shake and strain into chilled glass
Garnish : None
The name comes from the Frangelico bottle which looks like a monk (Friar), Also
Frangelico was made by monks in Italy a long time ago hence the bottle shape and also
the little rope around its waist. This drink I first introduced to my friends back in Sweden
on a night I was home for the weekend and they took such a liking to this drink so they
will accept nothing else as there after dinner drink when we get together. Please do try
this drink its simple but yet so lovely.
French 75, 76, 90
The French 75 is old classic champagne cocktail and today many people still argue
which is the classic recipe of this drink, is it with Gin or Cognac? Well I believe that I
have found an answer. Let me start by giving you a little history of this fine cocktail.
The name comes from a War I Artillery gun, the 75mm howitzer otherwise known as a
French 75. The drink got this name as it has such a good kick as did the cannon. It was
a very popular drink between the troops both in France and in England so what I think is
if you were in France at the time they were more likely to use Cognac and Champagne
while the British Troops used Gin.
Due to this booth recipes are correct for the drink but today most books and bartenders
have learned it in this order.
French 75 - Gin
French 76 - Vodka
French 90 - Cognac
----------------------------------
French 75
Category : Classic
Glass : Champagne Flute
Ingredients : 1shot gin
: 1/2 shot lemon juice
: 1/4 shot gomme (sugar syrap)
: Top up champagne
Method : Shake Ingredients strain into chilled champagne flute top up
champagne
Garnish : None (some people like it with a small lemon twist)
This is the Recipe for all of them just that you change the main ingredient depending on
which one they choose.
Remember the better main spirits or champagnes you use the better the outcome will
be. Also for you self to play around with what suits your palate because everyone is
different.
Gibson
The history of the Gibson was not easy to find out. Basically this cocktail is a normal
Martini cocktail but with an pearl Onion
And the story most people have heard is this one:
Sometime in the 1930s a magazine illustrator named Charles Dana Gibson asked
Charilie Conolly at New Yorks Players club to make "something different" so Conolly
used a cocktail onion to garnish a Martini and the resulting drink has come to be known
as a Gibson.
The real story in fact is this that dates 40 years prior to the one above. Charles Pollok
Gibson of San Francisco wrote to a reporter in America this story, In his own words:
“The story goes that WDK Gibson objected to the way the bartender at the Bohemian
club in San Francisco made martinis. He preferred them stirred, and mad with Plymouth
gin. He also believed that eating onions would prevent colds. Hence the onion.
WDK Gibson died in 1938”
The fact that this cocktail was registered before 1930 in cocktail books dating back to
1917 i do believe that this is the real story.
So how to make this classic cocktail?
Well you take a dash of dry vermouth (slightly more according to old recipes) with 60ml
of Gin (Plymouth gin if you want to drink it as WDK Gibson) then you stir it until Ice cold
fine strain it into a Chilled martini glass and Garnish with a pearl onion
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini Glass
Ingredients : 1/4 Dry Vermouth
: 2 1/2 shots of gin (Plymouth gin)
Method : Stir until Ice cold Fine strain into Chilled martini glass
Garnish : Pearl onion
Gimlet
The Gimlet has a big discussion to it if it was made with Fresh lime juice or if it was
Roses Lime cordial? After a bit of research I found that there is a recipe going back
that’s called the Gimlette and that recipe contain fresh lime juice.
Another recipe came just a little bit after this one which was with gin and Roses lime
cordial. It’s said they used this for the British sailors and used the Roses lime cordial to
prevent scurvy. It seems reasonable because after a long time out at sea the fresh limes
would go off, but the Roses lime cordial would last for a long time.
I don’t know which one is true, but I do find that the Roses lime cordial is a must in my
gimlets. Not because I am a Roses fan because I am not, and I don’t think that you
should ever use Roses to substitute for fresh lime!
But in a Gimlet it does work and the taste you get with the Roses Lime cordial is what
you are looking for if you are a Gimlet drinker. So the classic recipe that I learned is
straight forward.
Name : Gimlet
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini Glass/Tumbler
Ingredients : 2 shots Gin/Vodka
: 1 shot Roses Lime Cordial
Method : Stir strain into glass
Garnish : Lime wheel
This drink became popular and then vodka came into the market and became a more
popular choice. Now days if someone orders a gimlet from you, always ask if they want
Gin or Vodka, then ask if they want any specific Gin or Vodka. Also you should ask if
they want it straight up or on the rocks.
God father, God Mother, Dirty Mother and
Sicilian Kiss
These 4 similar drinks is classified as the classic drinks, And even though I have been
trying hard to find where they originated from unfortunately I haven’t been able to set a
place or date in time when they were invented.
A story I have heard from a friend is that the God father and the god mother was made
to market the Amaretto Disaronno.
The name I have read that they got from the God father movie. But all this is speculation
and I haven’t been able to say when and where they actually come from.
I just know what they actually is made of and that they were in my training classified as
one of the classic need to know drinks.
I have to say under all my years of bar tendering i think maybe once I have gotten an
order for 1 of these drinks and that would most likely be the god father, another drink
that also come close to these classic is a drink called "Sicilian Kiss" and comes with
1 shot of Amaretto and 1 shot of Southern Comfort,
The God father comes with 1 shot of scotch and 1 shot of Amaretto,
The God Mother is smoother and comes with 1 shot Vodka and 1 shot Amaretto
Dirty Mother is dark in colour and comes with 1 shot brandy and 1 shot Kalhua
Sicilian Kiss is a sweeter version and comes with 1 shot Amaretto and 1 shot
Southern Comfort
Now all these drinks are classified as classic drinks. Today they are not very popular
and most people don’t know about them, I am having them in this book because they
are classified as classic cocktails and I would like to try and keep them alive by
mentioning them in my book.
When I was learning these cocktails it was easy to mix them up in the beginning, but
when my teacher told me "Think of it like this"; "Father likes scotch while mom likes
vodka, and if your mother is dirty she likes Cognac in here Coffee!” after learning
that phrase I had no problem remembering which was what.
The Sicilian kiss I have always remembered because of the classic drink that No one
drinks but people know hence the name which is Called "Slow comfortable Screw Up
Against the Wall with a Kiss" This drink you can break down and it all reflects on
something that’s in the drink so first of all Slow refers to Sloe Gin comfortable is of
course Southern Comfort, Screw is a Screw Driver which is vodka and Orange juice, up
against the wall refers to the Galliano Bottle because this bottle will always be furthers
back in the bar due to its long neck, and with a kiss meaning Amaretto due to the Sicilian
Kiss.
I think this drink is very interesting because of the name and this is also why i want
everyone to learn about the classic drinks so when you get things like this you can
recognise it!
Name : God Father
Category : Classic
Glass : Tumbler
Ingredients : 1 shot scotch
: 1 shot Amaretto
Method : Build and Stir on cubed ice
Garnish : None
Name : God Mother
Category : Classic
Glass : Tumbler
Ingredients : 1 shot vodka
: 1 shot Amaretto
Method : Build and Stir on cubed ice
Garnish : None
Name : Dirty Mother
Category : Classic
Glass : Tumbler
Ingredients : 1 shot Brandy
: 1 shot Kalhua
Method : Build and Stir on cubed ice
Garnish : None
Name : Sicilian Kiss
Category : Classic
Glass : Tumbler
Ingredients : 1 shot Southern Comfort
: 1 shot Amaretto
Method : Build and Stir on cubed ice
Garnish : None
Golden Cadillac
This golden oldie is a nice digestive cocktail that has most likely seen its peek a while
ago!
But this drink is still being enjoyed around the world today, and in some places more
than others. For instance in El Dorado 5 1/2 hours from LA in a place called "Poor Reds
BBQ" where they are supposed to be quite famous for their Golden Cadillacs,.
The story goes that the drink actually was invented there and that’s why people travel all
the way out there just to drink it at its origin, (Now if this is 100% true i can’t say for sure)
But according to their blogs it seems like people are driving quite the distance to go to
this BBQ Restaurant just to have some ribs and to be sipping on those Golden
Cadillacs!
"Poor Reds BBQ" is claiming that they are the biggest consumers on the liqour Galliano
in America and maybe the whole World! (Galliano a main ingredient in the Golden
Cadillac) This is a pretty strong statement but could be possible due to Galliano isn’t
used in that many classic cocktails (Harvey Wallbanger (see page Harvey Wallbanger),
Freddie Fudpucker(see page Freddue Fudpucker), Golden Dream(see page Golden
Dream) and Golden Cadillac)
I think that this is quite the tasty digestive to have every now and then, I can’t have too
many of them but one after a dinner I would gladly do!
The drink recipe that I have learned from the Chelsea Bartender Academy is the same
as they do in the "Poor Reds BBQ" and the recipes goes like this:
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini
Ingredients : 3/4 shot Galliano
: 1 1/4 shot Creme de Caco (White)
: 1 shot Half& Half
Method : Shaken fine Strain into chilled martini Glass
Garnish : None
Now The IBA (International Bartender Association) doing there measurements slightly
different, They want 2 cl of each ingredient, but me I prefer the recipe I have learnt, also
I know that this cocktail isn’t supposed to come with a garnish but as I have said before I
do not like a cocktail without a garnish so it is nice if you can grind some chocolate
flakes on top (Even a bit of chocolate powder makes a difference).
Golden dream
This is a digestive classic that was sipped a lot during the 60s all the way to the 80s and
now unfortunately it lost its popularity, it is a nice drink not to be underestimated.
It is said that this cocktail was made up by a bartender in Miami by the name of
Ralmundo Alvarez when he worked in Old King Bar.
This drink I first got to hear about during my Bartender training. At first this was not really
my type of drink but then when I came down to Cape Town and had the drink again a
few years later I came to realise how good this drink actually taste.
You just need to be careful with the measurements not to put too much in and keep it to
that creamy taste that it was intended to have in the begging and not to be too strong in
Alcohol and knock your socks off but rather to be enjoyed after a meal instead of having
a bit of ice cream as dessert!
The recipes that are out there today do vary a lot specially the part on “how much you
should put in” I think that after a bit of experimenting I have found out what works well in
this drink, Please try it for yourself to get just the right amount for you.
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini
Ingredients : 3/4 shot Galliano
: 3/4 shot Cointreau
: 1 shot Orange juice
: 1 shot Half& Half
Method : Shaken fine Strain into chilled martini Glass
Garnish : None
This is the measure that I think balance the drink but feel free to adjust them to your
liking. The classic garnish for this drink is to have no garnish, but I don’t really enjoy
serving a drink without garnish so I usually put an orange spiral alongside the glass to
make it look a bit more inviting.
Grasshopper
It is said that the grasshopper cocktail was invented sometime in the early 1950s in a
small bar in New Orleans Louisiana. The name Grasshopper comes from its Green color
which it gets from the creme de menthe that’s in this cocktail.
This drink reminds a bit about an After eight chocolate.
Many people might actually have had this drink but they do not know the name there for
don’t think that they have had this cocktail. The grasshopper is a classic digestive
cocktail it’s not my favorite from the classics but still a classic that has to be recognized
for what it is.
I have seen a few different versions of this drink some with Bailys and other products!
This is not the original recipe but some twist to the classic that become established itself
after the original. The original cocktail has 3 ingredients and that is Creme de Menthe,
Creme de Caco (White is a must due to the color) and Cream (or Half &Half) Now it’s
pretty straight forward you take 1 shot of each shake and stain into a chilled Martini
glass.
With this cocktail as with any other the better base products you use the better will the
end result be.
Name : Grasshopper
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini
Ingredients : 1shot Creme de Menthe (Green)
: 1 shot White Creme de Caco
: 1 shot Cream (Preferred Half& Half)
Method : Shake and stain into chilled martini glass
Garnish : None (I like it with a Mint Sprig)
I for some would always use the Half& Half in this drink! If you would like to change this
to a Flying grasshopper you would have to put Vodka in there and also take away the
cream and slightly rearrange the measurements
Name : Flying Grasshopper
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini
Ingredients : 1shot Vodka
: 1 shot White Creme de Caco
: 1/2 shot of Creme de Menthe (Green)
Method : Shake and stain into chilled martini glass
Garnish : None (I like it with a Mint Sprig)
Some people do like it when the flying grasshopper has cream in it you try and see what
you like best
Harvey Wallbanger
This drink that’s the same as a screw driver but with a float of Galliano on top is credited
to a bartender called Donato Duke Antone. He is also credited with the invention of the,
Freddie Fudpucker and the Godfather.
It’s said he came up with the Harvey Wallbanger drink around 1950s, and it got its name
after a Surfer who was a patriot in the beach bar he was working in.
The Wallbanger part is not totally clear why this name came to be, one story is that the
Galliano Bottle is called Against the wall ( Due to the very special long neck, this bottle
will always be placed furthers back in the bar) so when you pick the bottle up it will ban
against the wall.
Another story is that Harvey the surfer lost a completion one day and came to the beach
bar to drink. When he had one too many of this cocktail he was stumbling out and
constantly hit his head falling over on the way out. I don’t know if this is 100% true but it
is a quite funny story!
What is in this cocktail? Well the classic recipe is
Name : Harvey Wallbanger
Category : Classic
Glass : Hiball/Collins
Ingredients : 2 shots Vodka
: Top up Fresh orange juice
: Float Galliano on top
Method : Build and stir on cubed ice
Garnish : Orange slice
There isn’t really anything to change in this recipe it’s as it is. I just make sure that when
I do this cocktail (not too often this days) I always do it with Fresh Orange juice, Harvey’s
brother in cocktails is the Freddie Fudpucker and it’s the same recipe just that you
change to Tequila instead of Vodka
.
The Hemingway Special
This drink comes from the famous author Ernest Hemingway, which in his days liked a
cocktail or two, also he was quite picky when it came to the taste.
There is a lot of story’s out there and it is very entertaining to read about and after a lot
of research I have now found what I do believe is the truth about where this cocktail
originates from. This drink originates from the classic Daiquiri and the story behind that
is:
One day a bearish man entered a bar and asked to use the toilet. When the man
emerged from the bathrooms and saw the daiquiris lined up on the bar, his curiosity was
piqued. He asked for a sip. "That is good, but I prefer it without sugar and double rum.
Constantiono the barman mixed one up to the man’s specifications, and the man
declared it is very good. The man was of course Ernest Hemingway. The modified
version of the daiquiri became known as the Papa Doble. Later a variation that came up
had some grapefruit juice in it and also some maraschino liqueur.
It is said in some stories that Hemingway had diabetes and that’s one of the reason that
he didn’t like the sugar in the drink.
Something that is being discussed today is if you should serve this drink frozen or not?
Well in my opinion I do not like the blended cocktails as I think it comes out as a slush
puppy. In this case you are going to have to make up your own mind and see what you
like. The recipe for a Hemingway special that I have found is this
Name : Hemingway Special
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini Glass/Tumbler
Ingredients : 2 shots Rum
: 1 shot Lime juice
: 1/2 shot of Maraschino liqueur
: 1 bar spoon fresh Grapefruit juice
Method : Shake Strain into glass
Garnish : Lime and grapefruit slice.
This recipe is good but I have during my years tried a few recipes and I have found that I
like a bit more of Fresh White grapefruit (Not Pink grapefruit) then this recipe states,
Also its nice with a bit of sugar in there just to balance the drink. Also I do like mine on
the rocks instead of straight up so my recipe is this;
(See recipe on next page)
Name : Hemingway Special
Category : Classic
Glass : Tumbler
Ingredients : 2 shots Rum
: 1 shot Lime juice
: 1/4 shot of Maraschino liqueuer (or 2 bar spoons cheery juice)
: 1 shot fresh White Grapefruit juice
: 1/2 shot sugar syrup
Method : Shake Strain into glass
Garnish : Lime wheel, White grapefruit slice and a cheery on top.
Horses Neck
Horses Neck is not a common drink that you see that often today. The first time I
bumped into this drink was when I came down to Cape Town. When I had my first sip of
this drink it was very pleasant and after that I have started drinking this drink from time to
time. It’s very similar to a Whiskey Dry, although you just need to put some bitters and a
long lemon peel into the drink.
The History of this drink goes back to 1890s when a lot of people started drinking this
drink instead of the Pink Gin (Gin and Bitters) and it actually started to get as today we
say "can I have a G&T" this drink was "can I have H&N". I don’t know who came up
with this drink but there is a story that goes it was meant to be a non-alcoholic cocktail in
the beginning with just ginger ale and lemon peel with some bitters. Then later people
came and wanted it with a kick, Hence the bourbon, (sometimes Brandy)
What is the classic recipe for this drink? Well the recipe that I have found goes like this:
Category : Classic
Glass : Hiball/Tumbler
Ingredients : 2 shots Bourbon
: Long Lemon Peel
: Dash of Angostura bitters
: Top up Ginger Ale

Method : Build with the lemon peel around in the glass cubed ice
Garnish : None (the Lemon peel inside is enough)
I haven’t changed this recipe at all because I think it just works, the only thing that I have
learned after making a few is some tips on how to build the drink.
First I do prefer it in hiball glass so you can get a bit more Ginger Ale in there (This will
make the drink last a bit longer) the bourbon you have to find the one that you like. I am
quite happy with Jim Beam in this drink, compliments the ginger ale. The long lemon
peel what is nice to do with that is that you roll it into a nice spiral put it on a small plate
and then you can coat the lemon spiral with angostura bitters. This will get the bitters
nicely into the drink and also when you put the lemon zest in it will make a big difference
in appearance, to have that nice peel climbing all the way up in the glass just beautiful!
Kamikaze
The Kamikaze is a drink that’s up for debate; I first learned this drink to be a cocktail
shooter and not a drink served in a martini glass. During my years I have made a lot of
Kamikaze shots, but every now and then I have had people coming and asking me for a
kamikaze and wanted it in a martini.
This drink is very like wise to for instance a Margarita only to be changed with vodka
instead of Tequila.
I believe that this drink was invented when the vodka became big in America around the
early 1950s and the name is said to be coming from the Japanese kamikaze suicide
Pilots of World war 2. This because of the strong alcohol content in the drink but well
masked with the Lime juice.
This as a shot I don’t mind at all but to have and sip on it is not to my taste at all.
Today you get a lot of different Kamikazes made up with different fruits, these as
shooters are most often very pleasant (if made right) and easy to make,
I will do the measures for a shot if you feel that you want to have it as a larger drink then
just up the measures. But this is the measures for a shot.
Category : Classic
Glass : Shot glass (50ML)
Ingredients : 1 shot of Vodka
: 1/4 shot of Cointreau
: 1/2 shot Lime juice
Method : Shake Strain into shooter glass
Garnish : None
This for me is a good recipe for a shot of Kamikaze, I also like to add a drop off Roses
Lime Cordial on top this just rounds the taste of.
Kir Royal
The Kir Royale is a champagne version of a cocktail called Kir, a white wine and
blackcurrant liqueur cocktail.
The classic version Kir Royale is simply champagne with a splash of Cremde de Casis,
a black current liqueur, though there are many variations out there I have done it with
quite a few different ones from ex Chamboard to Creme de Mure, back to the old classic
way Creme de Casis.
Canon Felix Kir, mayor of Dijon in Burgundy France from 1945 to 1965 is often credited
as the creator of the Kir Royal, it is said Kir used creme de Casis to sweeten the local
low quality war time wines to make them more pleasant by using the combination of
wine and casis also called "un kir"(one Kir). When they started to use Casis with
Champagne the name became Kir Royal.
My favourite has become the Creme de Mure which is more of a darker taste then the
Casis but still similar in taste.
Making this drink I say the steps you should go about would be to have an Chilled
Champagne Flute put in the Casis about 1/4 shot more if the customer specify it. Then
top up with champagne.
This way it mixes nicely and you get the hints of the dark berries.
Category: Classic
Glass : Champagne flute
Ingredients: 1/4 shots Casis (if that’s your option)
Top up champagne
Method : Pour casis into bottom of chilled glass top up with champagne
Garnish : None (Some like it with a steam less cherry inside)
Latin Lover
An Exotic Erotic name for an Tropical drink. This beautiful classic cocktail (although rare
classic) is a very nice mix between Cacchaca and Tequila mixed with Pineapple juice
and to make it a bit sour fresh lemon juice.
I have learned about this cocktail reading in the American Bar book written by "Charles
Schuman" This book was given to me from my boss and good friend Heinz Lamar.
Today I have tried to track down the history of the drink but haven’t been able to figure
out when or who came up with this tropical drink.
There is a reference in his book saying 1984 but more than that I am afraid I haven’t
been able to find out.
Although its history is forgotten doesn’t make it that the drink is!
This is a very refreshing and lovely drink that I can easily drink a few of on a night!
I have even made a new version based on this drink called "Rose-Mary Lover" (see
page Rose-Mary Lover)
The mix between Cachaca and Tequila first made me suspicious of the drink but as it
turns out it’s a nice blend.
The recipe for the Latin Lover is the following:
Name : Latin Lover
Category : Classic
Glass : Hiball/Catalina glass
Ingredients : 1 shot of Tequila
: 1 shot of Cachaca
: 1/2 shot Lemon Juice
: 3 shots of Pineapple juice
: Dash of Roses Lime Cordial
Method : Shake and strain into glass serverd on crushed ice
Garnish : Pineapple and a Lemon spiral
This is the classic version from Charles Schumanns book American Bar. Me I think it’s a
great recipe but I do like to add a small splash of sugar just to round it off also it is very
nice to have some fresh Pineapple muddled in there.
Long Island Iced Tea
The Long Island Iced Tea Love it or hate it?
This drink many people come who doesn’t know anything about cocktails and think that
by ordering this drink they will get maximum amount of alcohol and get drunk quickly!
This is NOT true the amount of alcohol that you will be getting in this cocktail compared
to another is not much.
I don’t mind a well-balanced Long island sometimes (not too often).
This drink has a quite an interesting story. The first fact I found is that this cocktail was
created and served first in the 1970s in a bar called Oak Beach Inn, in the Town of
Babylon Long island, New York. The barman serving the cocktails name was Robert-
(Rosebud) Butts and he claims that he invented this drink together with a man called
Lesile Plotnick.
But when I read more about this an interesting story popped up saying that this cocktail
first surfaced in 1920 in a community called Long island in Kingsport Tennesee.
It says that the inventor was Old Man Bishop and he passed the recipe down to his
grandson who in the 1940s Perfected the drink.
At this time it was the Probation (1920-1933) so this is why the drink came to be.
At that time it was normal that they tried to cover up the alcohol by making cocktails out
of it to make sure no one knew that they were drinking.
The Long Island Iced Tea is meant to look just like iced Tea although there is no Iced
Tea in there. This story makes sense in another way and that is why he didn’t take credit
for this drink earlier? When its forbidden to serve alcohol it’s not the right time to say that
you have a banging recipe!
This could very well be why it was not recognised before. I don’t know if this story is true
but it sounds like it could very well be.
What is the recipe for this cocktail? It contains the 4 basic white Spirits plus an orange
liquor, topped up with a splash of coke and a dash of sugar.
Name : Long Island Iced Tea
Category : Classic
Glass : Hiball/Catalina
Ingredients : 1/2 shot Vodka
: 1/2 shot Gin
: 1/2shot Rum
: 1/2 shot Tequila
: 1/2 shot Cointreau
: 1/2 shot sugar
: 1/2 shot Lemon Juice
: Splash of Coke
Method : Build and Stir on cubed ice
Garnish : Lemon Wheel
This recipe is good and always works, the only thing I do different with mine is that I like
to shake mine, also put the coca cola in first and then I nicely float the shaken t alcohol
on top. If you change the Coke to Cranberry Juice you will get a Long Island Beach
Tea. 
Lynchburg Lemonade
This drink was created and given its name by Alabama restaurant and lounge owner
Tony Mason in 1980.
It was the subject of a court case in 1987 where it was Mason V Jack Daniels Distillery,
what Mason claimed was that Jack Daniels sales representive visited his restaurant and
somehow learned the recipe which was a trade secret, 1 Year later Jack Daniels used
this cocktail to do a national campaign to promote the drink.
Mason then filed for a law suit against Jack Daniels distillery seeking over 13 million
USD in compensation! The Court did rule in Masons favour but only gave him 1 USD in
compensation.
This drink is a beautiful drink that works so well in summer. I am a big lover of Jack
Daniels myself so maybe that is why I do like this drink.
The original Recipe for this drink I found on www.Jackdaniels.com where I can assume
that with the history would be the classic recipe. And shocked as I was this is what I
found.
Category : Classic
Glass : Hiball
Ingredients : 1 part Jack Daniels
: 1 part tripple sec
: 1 part sour mix (This is the shocking part)
: 4 parts lemon lime soda (This is another shocking part)

Method : Build on Cubes
Garnish : Lemon Slice and a cherry
This recipe to my liking is awful. I am so happy things have changed and in my opinion
Jack Daniels web page should change its recipe too!. First off all using SOUR MIX? this
is very sad to see. It is supposed to be fresh ingredients, so there for freshly squeezed
lemon juice.
Tripple sec in my opinion also brings down the product unless it’s a quality one!
I would prefer to see a Cointreau in there to be honest. Lemon lime soda? Today I stick
to the lemonade... so this is how I was thought this recipe and I do absolutely take this
recipe instead of the other one any day!.
Catagory : Classic
Glass : Hiball
Ingredients : 1 1/2 shots Jack Daniels
: 1/2 shot Cointreau
: 1/2 shot of Lemon Juice
: 1/4 shot Sugar Syrup
: Toped up Lemonade

Method : Build on Cubes
Garnish : Lemon Slices and a cherry
Mai Tai
This Exotic drink that you associate with Tikki themes and sand beaches with Palms on
was actually not invented in such a place at all. It was invented in America in the
mudflats on San Francisco East bay in 1944 by a California restaurant, the late Vic
Bergeron of Trader Vics fame.
There was a dispute that a man named Don the Beachcomber came up with the Mai Tai
in 1933. The drink that Don the Beachcomber made is a bit more complex than the
classic recipe of a Mai Tai and quite the big differences in taste.
The story that Vic Bergeron says how he came up with the Mai tai goes like this:
It was year 1944 after a success with a few exotic rum drinks I felt that a new drink was
needed. I looked on the bottle shelf and took down a bottle of 17year old rum, it was J.
Wray& Nephew from Jamaica.
The flavour of this rum wasn’t meant to be overpowered with heavy addition of fruit
juices and flavourings. So I took a fresh lime added some orange curacao, a dash of
rock candy syrup and some french orgeat for tis subtle almond flavour.
I added a generous amount of shaved ice and shook it vigorously to mix it properly.
Half the lime shell went into each drink for colour and I stuck in a branch of fresh mint. I
gave the first two drinks to two friends from Thiti who were visiting me and after the first
sip one said "Mai tai roa ae" which in tahitian means " Very Good (out of this world
good) and there we all loved the name and that is how the Mai Tai was born.
This Drink for me is a very special drink which in every place I worked in I have always
varied in style how to make.
It is not an easy drink to make and I have seen so many recipes on this drink that I
couldn’t keep them apart and even my Mai tai turned into something that wasn’t a mai tai
in the end.
So after reading up about the Mai tai I have found the original and happy that I did, The
classic recipe that I have found goes like this:
Category : Classic
Glass : Tumbler
Ingredients : 2 shots 40%ABV (80 Proof) J. Wray & Nephew Rum
: Freshly lime Juice from half a lime
: 1/2 shot Orange Curaco
: Dash of rock candy syrup (Sugar Syrup with a lot of Sugar in it)
: a bit of French Orgeat (almond)

Method : Shake well, Served on crushed ice
Garnish : Lime and sprig of mint
This recipe is good and quite easy to make, but after being in contact with my good
friend "Giacomo Russo" he told me a recipe that he learned from a former colleague of
his, and I tried the recipe he gave me and absolutely loved it! Tthe recipe he was taught
by "Tony Conigliaro" I Strongly suggest that you try both of the recipes to see which fits
your palate but i do love the later one from "Tony"
(See next page for recipe)
Category : Classic
Glass : Tumbler
Ingredients : 1 Shot Mount Gay rum
: 1 shot Myers Rum
: 1/2 shot of Cointreau (or Tripple Sec)
: 3/4 shot of Apricot Brandy
: 1/2 shot of Lemon juice
: 1/2 shot of Lime Juice
: 3/4 shot of Orgeat Syrup
: 2 drops Angostura bitters

Method : Shake well Served on crushed ice
Garnish : Sprig of Mint, Lime Slice and 2 cherry’s
Manhattan
It’s one of the big classic cocktails that every good bartender should know.
This cocktail is good as an aperitif as well as a digestive.
The history with this drink is quite interesting there is a few different storys out there but
this is the one that I feel is the most interesting and also sounds true:
The drink originated at the Manhattan Club in New York City in the early 1870s where it
was invented for a banquet hosted by Jennie Jerome (Lady Randolph Churchill,
Winston’s mother) the success of the banquet made the drink popular.
Later several people requested the drink by referring to the name of the club where it
originated - “the Manhattan Cocktail”
In the famous Jerry Thomas Bartenders guide the recipe is very interesting where he
uses measurements like a Pony, and a wine glass as measurements.
In some of the classic recipes I have found it states equal parts of (RYE) whiskey and
vermouth, or two parts vermouth and 1part (RYE) Whiskey the recipe also calls for
Bokers bitters which is a bit harder to get hold of today.
The recipe I have learned and used during my time doing the cocktails is different then
what I have read from the classic recipes. I have simply been using this:
There is 3 different questions you need to ask the customer when they order a
Manhattan Would you like Sweet, Dry, Perfect ?
If the person would like it sweet I would use 1shot of Sweet vermouth, 2 shot of Rye
whiskey Dash of maraschino, (if maraschino isn’t around 2 spoons of cherry juice)2
drops of angostura bitters. garnish drop in a cherry.
If the person would like it Dry its 1 shot of Dry vermouth 2 shot of Rye whiskey 2 drops
of angostura bitters garnish with Lemon twist.
If the person would like it perfect it is ½ shot sweet vermouth ½ shot dry vermouth 2
shots Rye whiskey 2 drops of angostura bitters garnish lemon twist, and a cherry
It shall be stirred to perfection of course and served in a Chilled Martini Glass
(See next page for recipe)
Name : Manhattan
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini Glass
Ingredients : 2 shot Rye Whiskey
: 2 drops angostura bitters (Bokers bitters)
: If Sweet add 1 shot sweet vermouth (some add a small splash of
marschino)
: If Dry add 1 shot of dry vermouth
: If Perfect do 1/2 shot dry vermouth, 1/2 shot sweet vermouth
Method : Stir fine strain into chilled Martini Glass
Garnish : Dry = Lemon twist, Sweet = Cherry Perfect = both
This drink in London we usually just reached for the Canadian club bottle but once down
in South Africa it was different. We couldn’t get the Canadian Club down here.
Instead we got hold of Crown Royal, in the beginning this was a disappointment to me
but very quickly I found out that I did prefer it with the Crown Royal. It gave it more
character and a bit more punch!
Margarita
This Cocktail is one of the biggest ones that are out there.
On every menu in every cocktail bar you will see this cocktail! And every bar does it
differently!
I have to be honest, and I have had 100s of really bad margaritas where you can’t even
tell what kind of cocktail it’s supposed to be. It’s everything from a slush puppy, to a
Sweet Lime cordial kind of thing, to a drink full with salt inside the drink?
How is it that a drink with 3 ingredients (may vary 1-2 ingredients from place to place)
can go so wrong?
I have to say that not all margaritas are bad I have most likely had 100 of very good
perfectly balanced margaritas as well.
Let’s get to the bottom of this Tequila based drink!
The history of the margarita is unclear who made it and when? there is big arguments
and no one can tell for sure I have read a lot off different stories and I have seen one
especially that have popped up more than once and sound very believable.
In 1936 According to Salvador Negrete, the son of Daniel Negrete, the family story goes
that Daniel opened a bar at the Garci Crispo hotel with his brother David.
The day before David’s marriage Daniel presented the margarita as a wedding present
to Margarita, his sister in law. The Recipe then was 1 part tequila 1 part orange liquor
and 1 part lime juice.
I don’t know if this is the true story or not, there are many out there and I ask you to
make up your own mind please go and have a look for yourself!
What is it that makes a Margarita a good margarita? As I have said before the better
base the better the outcome so of course the better tequila the better the end product
will be.
Second of all don’t use cheap Tripple sec they also bring down the taste, I would
recommend a Cointreau or if you have laying around even a grand marnier.
3rd and very important the Lime, you should definitely use fresh Lime juice to get that
proper taste. To use a sweet and sour mix and all that crap will definitely bring the
margarita standard down!
Today there are some newly developments that I have tried and taking into my liking.
It’s something called Agave (Nectar) syrup it’s similar to honey but less viscous.
Because of this product the Tommys Margarita was born, which is basically Tequila,
Agave syrup, Lime shaken and served on the rocks.
it’s also used in many margaritas to day just to make them slightly rounder and a touch
sweeter than the original margarita.
So what question should you ask the customer today when they order a Margarita from
you?
Well you should ask if there is any specific tequila they would prefer in there margarita,
also ask if they would like it straight up or on the rocks, with or without salt rim? The
frozen margaritas is not my thing I do think it just turn out to something slushy and for
people who doesn’t know what they are drinking.
Also regards to the salt rim I have seen many ways of doing it. I have 2 favorites that I
have started using for practical reasons and also appearance.
If they tell me that they would like a salt rim on, I can either do a very fine and elegant
salt rim (on the outside of the glass so the salt doesn’t go into the drink)
the second way to do it would be to do on half the glass but a lot that goes down on the
side of the glass. This way the customer can chose how much salt they want or if they
don’t want any at all, here you get the best from both worlds.
With the garnish to the margarita which is a lime in some kind of form. For me I do like
the wedge because it has 2 really good functions. First the customer can squeeze in a
little bit more lime using the wedge if they want to, or they can scrape of the salt by
sliding the lime wedge on the rim and clean off the salt.
Here is the classical Recipe of the margarita:
Category : Classic
Glass : Margarita/Tumbler
Ingredients : 1 1/2 shot Tequila
: 1/2 shot fresh Lime juice
: 1/2 shot Cointreau
Method : Shake and strain
Garnish : Salt Rim, Lime wedge (Lime wedge is good if they want another lime
squeeze in there also the wedge make it possible to take the salt
away)
This is a good one that will always work I have as said before taking a liking to the agave
nectar so what I do is to put a splash of that in there so the measurements comes out
like this instead.
Category : Classic
Glass : Margarita/Tumbler
Ingredients : 1 3/4 shot Tequila
 1 shot fresh Lime juice
 1/2 shot Cointreau
 1/4 shot agave nectar
Method : Shake and fine strain
Garnish : Salt Rim, Lime wedge (Lime wedge is good if they want another lime
squeeze in there also the wedge make it possible to take the salt
away)
This version I do find a bit softer than the original it’s a good one but you try and find
your own balance and what is up to your liking. Experiment a lot there is a lot of recipes
out there. Try if you don’t have the agave nectar you can always play around with honey.
When it comes to shaking this drink i don’t like when it has been shaken so hard it taste
like water, what I do is a nice shake but not too hard to still keep that taste from watering
down to much just to chill it.
Martinez
This is said to be the Father of the Classic Martini.
The person who invented the Martinez is yet again Jerry Thomas the Old bartender
Professor and a legend in the cocktail world.
It’s said that the Martinez was created by Jeffrey Thomas while he was tending to a bar
in San Francisco in Occidental Hotel.
He created the Martinez first for a gold miner going to the town Martinez not far from
where he worked. In his book " How to mix drinks published in 1887" his recipe calls
for Old Toms Gin (See page “Gin” for more information on Old Toms Gin) Sweet
vermouth, Bokers bitters, a dash of Maraschino and two dashes of sugar syrup and on
top a twist of lemon.
At that time he also states that you should be heavy on the sweet vermouth and easy on
the gin, So 4 parts Sweet vermouth and 1 part gin.
This is of course very different from the classical Martini we have today but still it’s here
it all started.
This is a Classic drink that you really rarely get an order for, I haven’t made one with the
Old Tom gin myself yet as I didn’t know that the recipe called for that until resent
research, It is a sweeter tasting drink (even though I used the London Dry Gin instead of
Old Toms Gin) and nothing I could have too many off at all, but it is an important drink
that should be in here so you will all know where it all started.
I have been to a lot of cocktail bars and meet many good bartenders but I have to say
that there is not many that actually know this drink.
According to Jerry Thomas "How to mix drinks" its recipe goes
Name : Martinez
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini
Ingredients : 1 shot Gin (Original Old Toms Gin)
: 2 1/2 shot of Sweet Vermouth
: Dash of Maraschino liqour
: 1/4 shot of sugar syrup
: 1-2 drops Bitters (Originally Bokers Bitters)
Method : Stir and fine strain into Chilled martini glass
Garnish : Lemon Twist
Mimosa
Buck`s Fizz came as an result of a missing ingredient. That’s according to the secretary
of the Buck`s Club in London
Captain Buckmaster, the clubs founder, enjoyed golfing trips to France. On one of these,
in 1921, he was given a cocktail combining champagne and peach juice.
When the Captain returned to his club, he asked the bartender "Mr McGarry" to recreate
it.
Because Mr.McGarry couldn`t get hold of any peach juice he used orange juice instead
and Bucks Fizz was born. This Recipe contains 4/10 orange Juice and 6/10 champagne
In 1925 in France at the Hotel Ritz of Paris someone prepared a cocktail similar to
Bucks Fizz but changed how much orange juice and champagne and added a cherry as
garnish and the Bucks Fizz was renamed Mimosa
This Drink is very popular to have in the mornings when you are away on holidays or
honeymoons and Weddings it’s a very simply but yet wonderful cocktail.
Best way to do this cocktail is with freshly squeezed orange juice to get that real orange
flavour out. Then top up with nice ice cold champagne.
Category : Classic
Glass : Champagne Flute
Ingredients : 3shots Fresh orange juice
: Top up champagne
Methods : Pour in orange juice top up with champagne stir gently
Garnish : (cherry) I would do none
Mint Julep
This drink is an absolute great drink that I just love (when made right)! The Julep comes
in many variations the classic way of making it is with a bourbon , but can be made with
rums, brandy, gin, champagne and so on.
The history of this drink is a bit cloudy some say it arrives from an Arabic country long
time ago. The term Julep means Rose water in Persian and it is said that long time ago
they used to drink water with rose petals and sugar when this drink travelled overseas
the rose petals changed to mint.
The Mint julep that we know today originated in southern States around the 18th century
but what most people associate the Julep with is the Kentucky Derby, promoted by
Churchill Downs, since 1983 each year almost 120 000 juleps are served at Churchill
downs over a two day period! That is a lot of juleps!
What is the classic Recipe of this excellent drink? It do vary from place to place,
bartender to bartender, some say it has to be served in a Tin Cup(Also called Julep Cup)
so it get all frosted when you stir it. Some say a tall glass, some say Tumbler, Myself
defiantly prefer the Julep Cup. A few say you need to use spearmint (Used in the
southern states) others say you need a lot of mint and others says it’s enough with a few
leaves. In this case I am going to have to let you find out for yourself, what your favourite
way of making this drink is.
All I can give you is a classic way of making it and my way to it and then it’s for yourself
to find which one you prefer!
Category : Classic
Glass : Julep Cup/Tumbler
Ingredients : 2 shots Bourbon
: 2 bar spoons Sugar
: 12-15 mint leaves
: Water (soda water)(optional)

Method : Use bar spoon to muddle the mint together with the sugar, top up
Crushed ice add bourbon
Garnish : sprig of mint
Here the trick is to muddle (using the bar spoon) the mint and sugar together so it
becomes almost like a mash. After that you put crushed ice and add the bourbon stir it a
bit more, (Some people do this in two steps) ex muddle mint with sugar add a bit of ice
and half the bourbon stir, then add more mint and the rest of the bourbon with crushed
ice and a last stir. Add mint sprig for garnish.
(See next page for recipe)
My recipe is very similar to the first one and I do it in two steps myself.
Category : Classic
Glass : Julep Cup
Ingredients : 2 shots Bourbon
: 1 bar spoon Brown Sugar
: 12-15 mint leaves
: 1/2 shot Mint Sugar
: Soda water

Method : Use bar spoon to muddle the mint together with the sugar, top up
Crushed ice add bourbon (2 step version)
Garnish : sprig of mint
As you can see I do 1 spoon of brown sugar, then 1/2 shot of Mint sugar syrup.
This is just to get the sugar into the drink, and the brown sugar is more to get the nice
bits and crunchers when you sip the drink.
If you do have time it’s nice to leave the mint and the sugar with a dash of bourbon in the
glass for a few minutes to get it to really soak in before starting to muddle it. Of course
the Bourbon in this case play a huge roll of the outcome.
I would like to see mine with a nice Woodford Reserve, or a good Buffalo Trace.
If you are in London or thinking of going to London you have to visit All Star Lanes if you
are a Julep fan. There Juleps are really something special. And you can enjoy a good
"drunken" bowling game with your friends sipping those Juleps.
Mojito
This is one of today’s biggest selling cocktails in the world. No matter where you go in
the world everyone knows what a Mojito is!
I think this is the drink that has come to be from what all bartenders loved in the
beginning to what all bartenders now hate to make due to all the 100s you do every
night working in bars. Also I have never had a drink that can come out so differently in
so many places!
It is many places that struggle to get the right balance out of this cocktail.
It is also because there is so many (wrong) different ways of making this classic cocktail.
Before I start going in to that i would like to talk about the History of the mojito, because
it do have a very interesting background to it, and as for such great cocktail it’s also
many who would like to claim to be the creator of this drink!
One story goes like this:
In the 16th century there was a drink called" El Draque" (The Dragon) it was named in
the honour of Sir Francs Drake.
It was made with aguardiente a primitive predecessor of rum (I would assume a bad
taste on this) and to cover it up he used mint and lime with some sugar.
First this was used as a medicine.
This drink started spreading when it got introduced to the British sailors around 1650.
It’s said that this recipe got introduced in Cuba and there it got redone with normal rum
instead of its predecessor. This made the drink very popular and the first recipe written
down is said that it was with Bacardi Rum.
Another story is that Mojito comes from the word "mojo" which is an African word and
means " to place a spell" the slaves working the sugar cane fields and they had a
popular drink amongst them: to drink rum with the sugar cane syrup and mint.
If this story is true or not I cannot tell for sure but it do sound very likely that this could be
the case.
Regards to the history of rum and the Slave triangle.
If the first recipe for a mojito was with Bacardi rum, I would choose one of Bacardi’s
older rums.
There is actually more to the history of the mojito. It’s also one of Ernest Hemingway’s
favourite cocktails.
He was a big cocktail drinker in his time he also have a cocktail named after him which
is called Hemingway Special (See page Hemingway Special). Hemingway used to drink
his Mojitos at La Bodeguita del Medio in Havana and also in Key West Florida.
What is the key into making this cocktail? It is every ingredient in there but to use them
correctly! For instance the lime, If you put in 3-5 Lime wedges (depending on size) the
trick is not to go down with your muddler like an angry bull and squeeze the living out of
them. A gentle push on each and every one is enough. Because if you squeeze them to
hard you will get the bitterness from the skin and this is not very pleasant! 
Rather have some fresh squeezed lime juice to put in there with the pieces of lime you
have in your glass already.
Secondly is the mint.
You need to make sure that your mint have been washed before using it so you get rid
of all the dirt from the leaves, also all the pesto sites they use to spray on the farms this
will leave a bad taste in the drink, also it’s not very health.
If you take up 8-12 Mint leaves in your hand you can either put it in the glass and use
the muddler and gentle press the mint to the side of the glass this way you release the
aroma and flavours from the mint.
Some people just have the mint in there hand and they give them a hard clap before
dropping it in the glass. like an old saying I have heard " Don’t break it, Just wake it"
Third part is some people uses a good brown sugar in there drink just make sure it’s one
of the higher qualities and that it will dissolve when you mix the drink.
Otherwise you will end up with a very sour drink.
Sugar water (Gomme/Sugar syrup) is the easiest way to do it and to keep the
consistency. This is where you have to balance the drink depending on how much lime
you already got in your drink. 3/4 shot is normal if you have a normal amount of Lime.
Now the Rum, This is a very important step, It depends on how you like your Mojitos!
Do you like it neutral with most of the taste from the sugar, mint and lime? or do you
want that nice taste from maybe a good aged rum? Me personally would go for that
good aged rum in my mojitos.
The classic Recipe that I have found goes like this
Category : Classic
Glass : Hiball/Collins
Ingredients : 2 shots Rum (Bacardi)
: Half a Lime
: Handfull of mint
: 2 bar spoons Sugar

Method : Muddle and build on crushed ice
Garnish : Mint sprig
This is a classic recipe that I still see today in restaurants It’s not a bad recipe and I do
like it made like this, would perhaps change the brown sugar into sugar syrup ( Unless
you have a really good quality brown soft sugar) the rum I would personally change into
an aged rum.
(See next page for recipe)
My recipe that I am using today is:
Category : Classic
Glass : Tumbler
Ingredients : 2 shots Havanna Escpecial Rum
: 3-5 Lime wedges (Depending on size of Lime)
: 1/4 shot of Fresh Lime Juice
: 8- 12 Mint leaves
: 3/4 shot Mint Sugar Syrup
: 1/3 of a bar spoon with brown sugar (nice one) just to get the crunch
from the sugar while drinking it
: toped up with Soda (Optional)
Method : Muddle and build on crushed ice
Garnish : Mint sprig (dipped in sugar frosting)
You can see that I have put in mint sugar syrup instead of normal sugar, this helps to
bring out even more of the taste, It’s not necessary but in my opinion very nice.

Moscow Mule/ Jamaican Mule
The history of the Moscow Mule goes back to 1941 and was invented by a John G.
Martin and Jack Morgan owner of the of the Cock'n bull Tavern, a bar on the Sunset
strip in Los Angeles.
The story goes that John had recently acquired the right to sell Smirnoff vodka in the
US, and Jack had a very big supply of Ginger Beer at his establishment.
And so it came the Moscow Mule was born.
John used this recipe to promote his vodka around the country and it was a success!
This drink made vodka very popular in the US, even to precede gin.
The name they came up with together and the Moscow stands for the Russian vodka
(these days Smirnoff vodka is not Russian vodka but produced all over the world).
What was the classic recipe that was first made? It was 2 shots of Russian vodka (old
days Smirnoff) Ginger beer and a squeeze of Lime.
This recipe is a very good one but during the years it has developed slightly and to my
liking as well. Today most people put a few drops of Angostura bitter in there as well and
I have to say for me this does the trick.
Category : Classic
Glass : Hiball/Collins
Ingredients : 2 shots Vodka (Russian)
: Half of freshly squeezed Lime
: Top up Ginger Beer
: (dash of Angostura Bitters Optional)
Method : Build and Stir on cubed ice
Garnish : Lime Wheel / Lime wedge (Lime wedge is good if they want another
lime squeeze in there)
The Jamaican Mule is the same recipe just that instead of a Russian Vodka you use a
Jamaican rum. I like it with a nice Appelton Estate Rum but there are a lot of good rums
out there so you try and see what fits you.
Category : Classic
Glass : Hiball/Collins
Ingredients : 2 shots Rum (Jamaican)
: Half of freshly squeezed Lime
: Top up Ginger Beer
: (dash of Angostura Bitters Optional)
Method : Build and Stir on cubed ice
Garnish : Lime Wheel / Lime wedge (Lime wedge is good if they want another
lime squeeze in there)
Negroni
The Negroni what a wonderful aperitif cocktail this is!
It’s something which is just right with its taste in a hot summer day.
Where does this cocktail come from? Well it is said it was made in Florence, Italy around
the 1900s story is that Count Camillo Negroni wanted his Americano(See page
Americano) with a little extra kick so he asked the bartender to add gin into his
Americano and there we go the Negroni was born.
Even though that this original recipe is fairly simple this drink is absolutely one of the
harder drinks to get just right. After many tries and happy hours trying to perfect this
drink me and my friend think that we found the right approach for this drink.
Originally Recipe (Classic Style)
Glass : Tumbler
Ingredients : 1 shot Gin
: 1/2 shot Campari
: 1/2 shot Sweet Vermouth
Method : Build and Stir
Garnish : Orange zest
This is the Classic recipe and it is a good one. Made it for a long time until me and my
friend really went in to make this cocktail even tastier then it was.
We started with trying different gins in this cocktail like
Bombay,Tanquray,Beefeater,Gordons,Hendricks and so on and we came to the
conclusion that the Gordons gin was a winner due to its stronger juniper flavour.
To round the drink off just a hint we added a very small splash of lemon juice (2-3ml)
also the sweet vermouth was Martini Rosso that we found worked best.
On top we added a very small splash of soda to go back to the optional choice for the
Americano.
The garnish we did a small orange zest and a small lemon zest.
This is what we liked doesn’t mean we are right but please go ahead and taste the
difference and make your own decision.
Glass : Tumbler
Ingredients : 1 shot Gordons Gin
: 1/2 shot Campari
: 3/4 shot of Martini Rosso
: 2 -3 ml Lemon juice
: Small splash of soda
Method : Build and Stir
Garnish : small orange and lemon zest

Old Fashioned
The Old Fashioned as you can hear just from the name that this is one of the earliest
cocktails.
It’s a really divine Cocktail when made perfect; to have as an Aperitif before meal it’s just
the best.
To get this cocktail is not always easy. In many places you go too they will rush making
the cocktail and it ends up not being cold enough, or the sugar haven’t dissolved and so
on.
But when you get that perfect made Old Fashioned then it’s just to die for.
When was this cocktail introduced to the world? The first cocktail recipe dates back to
1895 where the recipe goes like this:
“Dissolve a small lump of sugar with a little water in a whiskey glass, add two dashes
Angostura bitters a small piece ice, small piece of lemon peel and one jigger bourbon
(44ml). Serve leaving spoon in the glass.
In the early 1900 two other recipes were out.
The first one say to have a cherry inside with some cherry juice, the second one say that
you should have some orange bitters in there toped up with a small splash of soda.
Today where ever you go there will be a own little twist to this cocktail, because every
bartender will have their taste to it and it all comes down to different palates.
Some things that should never change with this cocktail are that it is a very time
consuming drink to make! It is nothing you do in 30 seconds… A good Old Fashioned
takes time. I would say a good time for making an Old Fashioned my way, is close to 5
minutes.
This of course again depend on the way the bartender does it but it will always be a time
consuming drink to make, Otherwise it’s something wrong with the drink.
The Classic recipe dated back in 1895 for me is a bit harsh, but still what you are looking
for in an old fashioned.
My Recipe after trying a lot of different ways is this:
Old Fashioned glass / Whiskey glass put a napkin on top. Lay 1x White sugar cube on
top coat it with angostura bitters.
With the bar spoon muddle the sugar cube in the bottom of the glass, add 1 drop of
Orange Bitters.
Choose a good bourbon as I have said before the better the product the better the
outcome. I would love it with a nice Woodford Reserve, pour 50ml into a measure, put 2
ice blocks in the glass and put 1/3 of the bourbon in.
Do a Orange zest and then discard the zest. Stir until sugar slowly start dissolving.
Then do the same again 2 ice cubes, 1/3 of the bourbon orange zest discard, stir
another 1-2 min.
Then final step fill the glass up with ice put the last bourbon in and this time leave the
orange zest in (DO NOT DISCARD)
A good way to check if it’s ready is to check underneath the glass to see if it’s any
un-dissolved sugar at the bottom. If it isn’t, then it’s ready to be served or zipped.
(See next page for recipe)
Name : Old Fashioned
Category : Classic
Glass : Old Fashioned glass/ Whiskey Glass
Ingredients : 1x White sugar cube coated with angostura bitters,
: 1x drop of Orange bitters
: 2 shots Bourbon
: (3x Orange zest where leaving 1 as garnish rest discard)
Method : Coat sugar cube muddle in glass Build in 3 times adding and
stirring to perfection
Doing 3 Orange zest 2 discard
Garnish : Orange zest

Pimms Cocktail
This British summer drink is an absolute must when the summer comes out.
This drink as referred to as a Pimms Cocktail, Pimms Lemonade or a Pimms Cup. This
drink is actually rated to be the 2nd biggest drink during summer in Britain first of course
is there Tea.
I am guessing that most of you have had this fabulous drink already but the question is
what do you know about Pimms?
It all started in 1823 by James Pimm a farmer’s son who owned a bar called the oyster
bar in London. He offered a special drink based on gin and it was containing quinine (it’s
in Tonic back in the days and said it had the power to cure malaria) and also a mixture
of different herbs.
He served this drink calling it No 1 Cup. Pimms began a larger production in 1851 to
keep up with the demand.
The company was then sold to a man called Fredrick Sawyer, he had it for a while but
then it was sold again to a Horatio Davies who opened a chain of Pimms Oyster
Houses.
Over the years it has been more than 1pimms out there it was all the way up to number
6, all with different twists to it. After the war only 2 managed to stay alive and that is the
first recipe and the number 6 .
Today Pimms is owned by a company called Diageo that bought Pimms in 2006.
What was in this Pimms Cup or Pimms Cocktail? The Recipe that most bartenders
around the world use is similar you need Pimms no1 and a lot of different fresh fruits and
Lemonade.
This is all you need to create the perfect summer drink! It’s known also as the official
drink of the tennis tournaments in Wimbledon and about 80,000 Pints of this cocktail
gets sold yearly during this days to spectators.
Name : Pimms Cup(Pimms Lemonade, Pimms Cocktail)
Glass : Hiball/Catalina/Big Whine Glass
Ingredients : 2 shot Pimms No 1
: Fresh, Lemon, Lime, Orange, Strawberry, Raspberry, Blueberry,
Blackberry, Mint, Cucumber and Gooseberries
: Top up Lemonade
Method : Build and top up with Lemonade
Garnish : Mint sprig
Basically you take what fresh Berries and fruits you have at your disposal and add that
into the drink. There are a few things you should try and not use, 1 for example is the
fresh Passion fruit due to its small seeds it becomes unpleasant for the throat.
Are you are planning to have a few of this and you are with your friends or you know that
you will make a lot of these during a summer day, I strongly recommend to do Jugs of
this drink. This has a few advantages 1 is that you don’t need to get up all the time and 
make more. But the best about making a big Jug is that the fruit will have time to be
mixed in the drink and lets the flavours to be released into the drink. This make a lot of
difference in the end.
Are you feeling that you want to be a bit more fancy and not just drink Pimms with
lemonade you can change the Lemonade to Champagne and then it is called a Pimms
Royal.
Pina Colada
This drink is one of those you would drink while in the West Indies or a Tropical Island
far away from the normal life that you live (unless you live in such an amazing place
already).
This drink you want to have served in a Coconut or a Pineapple in some Tikki bar.
This Cocktail is a world famous drink that many people enjoy and also one of those that
so many ask if they can have it Non Alcoholic for their Children,,,,,,,
What’s the history of this drink? It’s said that it was invented in the 1800s when a Puerto
Rican pirate gave his crew a drink to give them courage, and that he served them Rum
with pineapple and coconut( Wondering what kind of Pirates they were?).
When he died in 1825 the recipe was lost.
Then it popped up again in the 1950s in the New York Times to a drink called
pina colada containing rum ,coconut, cream and pineapple juice, Where they say:
"Drinks in the West Indies range from Martiniques famous rum punch to Cubas pina
Colada (Rum pineapple and cocunut milk)”
Today when making this drinks there is of course a lot of ways of doing it.
There is a mix Called Coco-Lopez (Coconut cream mixed with sugar) this mix is famous
for being used in the Pina colada these days.
Question is should it be blended or should it be shaken? Both ways are right when it
comes to this one in my opinion. I usually shake mine and served them over crushed ice
in a Pina colada glass, (Would love to serve it in a Scooped out Pineapple if you have
the opportunity). But it’s not bad doing it in the blender together with a lot of fresh
pineapple. Whats the classic recipe?
Name : Pina Colada
Category : Classic
Glass : Pina Colada glass/ Catalina
Ingredients : 2 shots Rum
: 1 shot of Coco lopez
: 4 shots pineapple juice
Method : Blend or shake
Garnish : Pineapple slice with a cherry
This is the old way of doing it today it’s a bit more fun to be a bit more adventures then
this recipe calls for.
What I do is too put fresh Pineapple in there it really enhance the flavor of this drink, also
I like my Pina coladas to have a good punch to them it is not supposed to be a weak
creamy ice cream. I think it should have a good kick of the Rum, so I use one white rum
and a dark rum to up the taste. I like to shake it but this version works in the blender as
well.
(See next page for recipe)
Name : Pina Colada
Category : Classic
Glass : Pina Colada glass/ Catalina(Prefferd to have it in a scooped out
Pineapple)
Ingredients : 1 Shot of a White Rum
: 1 1/2 Shot of a Dark Rum
: Fresh pineapple
: 1 shot Coco- Lopez
: 2 shots Pineapple juice
: Float a splash of Dark Rum on top
: 1 bar spoon coconut flakes
Method : Blend or shake
Garnish : Pineapple slice, Cherry, 2x Pineapple Leafs, Sprinkle Cocunut flakes
If you don’t have the Coco Lopez available you can always use a bit of Cream together
with Coconut sugar.
On the note of this cocktail it has a brother called Chi Chi . Which is the same
ingredients but you change the spirit to become Vodka
Pink Lady (Clover Club)
The Pink lady I first heard off in the bartender school that I attended.
When I where learning about the classic cocktails we ran into the 3 Ladies, The White,
Pink and Blue lady all very similar in recipe with a few exceptions.
The Pink lady is actually based on the old classic drink "Clover Club" and when I have
gone through a load of different recipes I have realised that I was actually taught a
Clover club cocktail and not the Pink Lady in my training.
This is probably because the recipes are very similar.
The Pink lady received its name for its pink colour and also to attract female drinkers to
drink the cocktail.
In a book from 1951 from Jack Townsends "The bartender’s book" he wrote this
“The Clover Club drinker is traditionally a gentleman of the pre-Prohibition school. He
may not necessarily be one of the legal, literary, or business figures who were members
of the club of that name.
He may never have been in the bar of the Bellevue-Sratford Hotel in Philadelphia where
the Clover Club members foregathered and the drink originated. But he belongs with
that set. And switch from a Clover Club to a Pink Lady? Never ! For one thing someone
might classify him along with that Pink Lady drinker down the Bar”.
“Who dat? Why, surely you know her. She’s that nice little girl who works in files. Who is
always so courteous but always seem so timid. She's the one who sort of reminds you of
your aunt the quiet one. Naturally, you never expected to see her at the bar. She gets
into one about twice a year, at Christmas time or some other high old time, Just why she
picks the Pink Lady for these occasions-since the Lady packs quite a wallop remains a
mystery, even to her perhaps, It’s quite possible she has seen the decorative and
innocuous-appearing pink-and-white amalgamation passing on a waiter's tray and
decided " Hmmm, that couldn't do me any harm"
Name : Clover Club
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini Glass
Ingredients : 2 shot of Gin
: 1/2 shot of lemon juice
: 4 dashes of grenadine
: 1-2 bar spoons egg white
Method : Shake and strain into chilled glass
Garnish : Steam glower
This was the recipe I have learned for the Pink Lady, I also seen that some bartenders
put a bit of cream into this drink as well (When making a Pink Lady).
After a lot of reading, this is the recipe that I find good and also what people around the
world would agrees is the recipe for a Pink Lady!
(See next page for recipe)
Name : Pink Lady
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini Glass
Ingredients : 1 1/2 shot of Gin
: 1/2 shot of Apple brandy (like Calvados)
: 1/2 shot of lemon juice
: 4 dashes of angostura bitters
: 1-2 bar spoons egg white
Method : Shake and strain into chilled glass
Garnish : None (I like it with a cherry)
Planters Punch
As so many cocktails this is a hard one to track down the first recipe for.
After a lot of research it looks like this drink doesn’t have a standard recipe but it’s a
cocktail that’s being made differently where ever you go!
What I have been able to find is that it was first published in New York Times in August
8th 1908 and the recipe in there goes like this:
PLANTERS PUNCH
 This recipe I give to thee,
 Dear brother in the heat.
 Take two of sour (Lime let it be)
 To one and a half of sweet.
 Of Old Jamaica pour three strong
 And add four parts of weak
 Then mix and drink. I do no wrong--
 I know wherof I speak
This seems to be the recipe for the punch, where the Sweet could either be grenadine,
or sugar syrup or a mix. The sour can be either Lime or Lemon, the Jamaican of course
is the Jamaican rum and the weak can either be Pineapple juice or Orange juice or a
blend between the two.
Some people like the weak to be Soda I do prefer the juice instead.
It’s said this drink as they refer to in the recipe "Dear brother in the heat" that it was
invented for the people working in the fields and they were given a refreshing drink to do
there hard day’s work in the sun.
A person who has got some recognition for this drink is the Trader Vic which helped
spread the drink and make it popular.
Today it is as I said a lot of different recipes on this drink, but I found one that I do like.
Name : Planters Punch
Category : Classic
Glass : Hiball/Catalina
Ingredients : 2 shots of Jamaican Rum
: 1 shot of Lime Juice
: 1/4 shot of grenadine
: 1/4 shot of Sugar syrup
: 2 drops angostura bitters
: 1 shot of Orange juice
: 1 shot of Pineapple juice
Method : Shake well and strain into a glass on cubed ice
Garnish : Orange, pineapple slice and a sprig of mint
Purple hooter
Is one of the classic shooters I picked up during my training in Chelsea Bartender
Academy.
It’s a good and simple shot to make.
It’s slightly sweeter but nice to have 1 or 2 every now and then. This shooter is also
referred to as a "Purple Kamikaze" because its similarity’s with the Kamikaze shot
(Chamboard instead of Cointreau).
A nice thing with this cocktail shot is to add some fresh raspberries to up the freshness
of the shooter.
Otherwise the classic recipe works just fine. I have seen some recipes for this drink as a
long drink that’s being toped up with lemonade, which for me is not a pleasant
combination!
I do like this as the classic shot it’s supposed to be.
The recipe is simple and goes as following:
Name : Purple hooter
Category : Classic
Glass : Shot glass (50ML)
Ingredients : 1 shot vodka
: 1/2 shot Chamboard
: 1/2 shot Fresh lime juice
Method : Shake and strain into shooter glass
Garnish : None
Rob Roy
The Rob Roy is almost the exact same as the Manhattan the only thing is that you
change the Rye whiskey to a Scottish whiskey, apart from that it’s the same.
When a Rob Roy is ordered you need to ask the following questions, dry, sweet, or
perfect, also you should ask if they want it straight up or on the rocks the more
common style is to drink it straight up.
This drink was invented 1894 by a bartender at Waldorf Hotel in New your city.
The drink got its name from Robert Roy MacGregor who is considered a Scottish Folk
hero. Some even call him the Scottish Robin hood.
What’s in this cocktail? It is the same as Manhattan except for the base spirit which
changes to Scottish Whiskey instead of Rye whiskey.
Name : Rob Roy
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini Glass/Tumbler
Ingredients : 1 1/2 shot Scottish Whiskey
: 2 drops angostura bitters
: If Sweet add 1 shot sweet vermouth (some add a small splash of
maraschino)
: If Dry add 1 shot of dry vermouth
: If Perfect do 1/2 shot dry vermouth, 1/2 shot sweet vermouth
Method : Stir, fine strain into chilled Martini Glass
Garnish : Dry = Lemon twist, Sweet = Cherry Perfect = both
Some people say that it should be orange bitters instead of the angostura bitters I do like
it with the angostura but it’s up to you to decide.
A very important question when making this drink is of course to ask if they would like
any specific Scottish whiskey!
Russian Spring Punch
The Russian Spring punch was once one of my favourite Champagne cocktails.
It is a elegant blend between vodka (Russian vodka original hence the name) and fresh
fruits and champagne.
This drink is something that will sooth the most complex palates, It’s said that this
cocktail was invented by Dick Bradsell unfortunately I haven’t been able to find out when
or where he created this drink but never the less I am happy that he did!.
This Refreshing Aperitif consist of Vodka, Fresh lemon juice, Fresh Raspberries, a bit of
casis with a dash of sugar toped up with champagne.
There is of course more than one recipe but this is the recipe that I find best so far.
Maybe what you could play around with if you want to experiment with this drink would
be the creme de casis, I have tried it with Chamboard, creme de mure, but only to find
that the casis for me worked the best.
What makes a big difference is of course the fresh Raspberries compared to a puree,
the fresh always comes out better for me.
Name : Russian Spring Punch
Category : Classic
Glass : Hiball/Catalina
Ingredients : 1 shot of Vodka (Russian vodka original)
: 1/2 shot of creme de casis
: 1/2 shot of lemon juice
: 1/4 shot of Sugar syrup
: 3-5 Fresh Raspberries
: Top up Champagne
Method : Shake Strain into glass on crushed ice top up with champagne
Garnish : 3 raspberries (i like to add a small lemon twist onto)
This recipe is absolutely wonderful I do love this drink and for anyone who wants a nice
aperitif this is a winner,
Rusty Nail
The Rusty nail has been a drink that’s been in the process of becoming what it is for a
very long time.
It started around 1937 when a cocktail came out with the ingredients of 3parts of liquor
(Not specified what Liquor) with 1 part Drambuie and angostura bitters,
This is the first similar recipe to the now days Rusty nail, It’s said that in 1950s it finally
became The Rusty Nail , they took the old recipe from 1937 and changed it to appeal
the American People.
The outcome was 1 1/2 shot of Scotch blended Whiskey and 1/2 shot Drambuie with a
Lemon twist on top.
I myself started drinking this cocktail back in London in the Bagelioni Hotel where I used
to work. My friend Daniel and I always had a few of these while counting the stock, it just
made it a lot more pleasant!
This cocktail is simple and pretty straight forward. The key Ingredient is the scotch
whiskey you choose one that you like and then go from there. Don’t be surprised
because sometimes they just don’t fit that well with the Drambuie.
I have tried a few and came to a liking of Jonny Walker Black in this cocktail, Its richness
really works in Harmony with the Drambuie.
If you think the Rusty Nail you have made is too strong in flavour of the scotch just add a
splash of Drambuie and vice versa.
The classic recipe is easy and works very well for me.
Name : Rusty Nail
Category : Classic
Glass : Tumbler
Ingredients : 1 1/2 shots Blended Scotch Whiskey
: 1/2 shot Drambuie
Method : Build, stir on cubed ice
Garnish : Lemon twist
Scorpion
The Scorpion is one of those drinks that you will be able to find a lot of different recipes
for. Even the man who created the Scorpion has published 3 different recipes for his
own creation and also used yet another recipe for the Cocktail in his own restaurant.
They say it originated in a small bar in Honolulu called "The Hut". It was adapted by
Trader Vic (Also the man been recognized for making the Mai Tai) It’s said that his first
recipe for the Scorpion was extremely complex blend of at least 15 different Ingredients.
The more common Recipes dated from his book with the years is a bit easier and look a
lot more what I have learned as well.
1968 Scorpion Recipe By Trader Vic
Name : Scorpion
Glass : Hiball
Ingredients : 2 shot White Rum
: 1 shot Cognac
: 1/2 shot Orgeat syrup
: 1 1/2 shot Lime Juice
: 2 shots of Fresh orange juice
Method : Shake then strain into glass filled with crushed ice
Garnish : Mint sprig
This recipe is pretty straight forward I remember that in my training I added a 1/2 shot of
Cointreau into the drink.
Instead of using one rum, I had 1 dark and 1 white so1 shot of each.
But as I have said there is a lot of a different recipe out there, this is one that I think
works for this drink and so did Trader Vic.
Of course you should try and see for yourself to see what fits your palate.
Sea Breeze
This old classic is something that you don’t see every day!
This drink today consists of Vodka, Cranberry Juice, Grapefruit juice it hasn’t always
consisted of this.
In the late 1930s a sea breeze was containing Gin and apricot bandy, It wasn’t until
around 1950s when Ocean Spray started to market Cranberry juice to mix drinks with,
also at this time vodka started to become a more popular choice then gin, there for the
Sea Breeze evolved into what it is today!
Today we make it with vodka , Cranberry juice and grapefruit juice. As garnish we drop a
lime squeeze in.
What I do is that I first put the cranberry juice in a hiball glass and then I shake the
vodka together with the grapefruit juice so it will layer on top of the cranberry once I
strain it in.
The classic way is just to build it but I like to do the shaked version to make it look a bit
different.
This drink is a very refreshing drink and something you can try to get all the people who
is drinking Vodka Cranberry juice to try something new.
This drink is famous around the world and has been mentioned in a lot of movies over a
very long time starting with: "Just Shoot Me! Dennis Finch " always ordered this drink, In
Red Eye (2005)
It’s also mentioned a phrase that goes something like “I have been following you for 8
weeks now and all I see you order is a fucking Sea Breeze”. In the French kiss (1995)
Meg Ryan’s Character orders a Sea Breeze in Scent of a woman.
Al Pacino’s charter orders a Sea Breeze, in The Walker (2007)
woody Harrelson’s character drinks Sea breeze In Nick Swardsons (2009) stand up
special, Nick jokes about dying due to alcohol poisoning from excessive Sea Breezes.
Name : Sea Breeze
Glass : Hiball
Ingredients : 2 Shots of Vodka
: 1 shot of White Grapefruit juice
: 4 shots of Cranberry Juice
Method : Build on cubed ice (or shake Vodka and Grapefruit to layer on top of
cranberry juice)
Garnish : Lime Wedge
Sex on the beach
Here we go,, We have all had to make this drink for numerous amount of people who
has absolutely no clue on what to drink!
This drink is not a very good drink, nor is it interesting the only thing too this drink is the
name.
People love the name and hence the name it became popular and now classified as a
classic.
I wouldn’t put this drink on an actual cocktail menu, but I wouldn’t deny anyone who
insist of having one either.
I would try and see if I could get them to drink something else but that’s about it.
The people who would order this drink has most likely just turned 18 and is allowed to
drink for the first time and they want to try and blend in by ordering a cocktail, and the
first that comes to their mind is "can i have a sex on the beach please?"... Now that you
can see that I don’t like this drink, I am still writing it in this book because first of all it is a
classic and also I do have a twist to this drink so it becomes a lot more pleasant for the
palate.
The story about the sex on the beach is a big mystery it just seems like it popped up
sometime under 1980s to 1990s.
One story is that in 1987 the drink was created in response to a contest which was
carried out to highlight and sell peach schnapps. A bartender in Florida was credited
with devising the concoction, and naming it after the favourite Spring break pastimes of
visiting college students.
Another story but less likely is that this Cocktail was invented after the Kennedy Smith
Rape Case in 1991.
The story basically goes that William Kennedy Smith was in a bar in Florida where he
meet a woman Patrica Brown, after a few drinks they went down to the beach for a
"walk" and later she claims that he raped here while he says it was agreed sex.
The story became big and not long after a cocktail was made up in that name and
started spreading.
I think the second story is not correct because I have seen some evidence that the
cocktail actually been spoken about before 1991, The Classic recipe of this drink is
vodka, Peach schnapps, Orange juice, Cranberry Juice,
Name : Sex on the beach
Category : Classic
Glass : Hiball
Ingredients : 1 shot of Vodka
: 1 shot of Peach Schnapps
: 3 shots of Orange juice
: 2 shot of cranberry juice

Method : Build and Stir on cubed ice Float Cranberry juice on top
Garnish : Orange slice
This cocktail has a brother called Woo-Woo and that is also a classic the difference is
that you take away the Orange juice and just have cranberry juice in it.
I said before that I have this drink in here because it is a classic drink, but I do not like
this original recipe but in Kitimas when I worked there it was a twist to this classic drink
called Rai Le Beach which is a beach in Thailand,( one of the best i might say!) this
drink is far more pleasant and it was actually a quite big seller in the restaurant.
This drink contain Vodka, Peach Schnapps, Pineapple juice, dash of fresh orange,
Fresh Lemon juice and a few drops of Grenadine.
This drink is much more pleasant and I advise you to try it.
Name : Rai Le Beach
Category : Classic Twist
Glass : Martini
Ingredients : 1 shot of Vodka
: 1 shot of Peach Schnapps
: 1 shot of Pineapple juice
: 1/2 shot of fresh orange juice
: 1/2 shot Lemon juice
: Dash of Grenadine

Method : Shake and Strain into a chilled martini glass
Garnish : Cherry with a mint sprig in it and a lemon spiral going down around
the glass
SideCar
The Side cars history is very complex and up to today it is still a big argument where it
comes from. There is 2 different stories, one is from Paris France and the second from
London England,
The story from Paris is that during World War 1 there was an American Army Captain
often travelled around in a motorcycle sidecar. One day when he was under the
weather, he requested a libation that would help him feel better.
The bartender, trying to find something suitable to pair with "medicinal" Cognac added
Cointreau and lemon juice as a good source for vitamin C. The drink was named after
"Sidecar" as a tribute to its original patron, and the rest is history
The English version is that the true invention of the Sidecar can be traced back to
London’s famous Bucks Club in the 1920s. The creation is most often credited to Pat
MacGarry, one of the Bucks Clubs most popular bartenders.
With respect to the history I haven’t been able to figure out which is true or not.
The interesting part is when it comes to the measurements in the Side Car!
The French are saying that its equal parts of cognac and Cointreau while the English are
saying 2 parts Cognac 1 part Cointreau.
This in the end makes a big difference in taste.
I learned the English way because of my schooling in London and the recipe goes like
this.
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini
Ingredients : 1 1/2 shot Cognac
: 1/2 shot Cointreau
: 1/2 shot Lemon Juice
Method : Shaken fine Strain into Glass
Garnish : Half a Sugar rim
This was the way I learned this cocktail. Now days after, reading the French style and
tried it I have rearranged the measurements a tiny bit for me the outcome is more
pleasant
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini
Ingredients : 1 1/4 shot Cognac
: 3/4 shot Cointreau
: 1/2 shot Lemon Juice
Method : Shaken fine Strain into chilled martini Glass
Garnish : Half a Sugar rim (quite nice with small orange twist on top)
Singapore sling
This Cocktail is a very classic cocktail with its very own history. In fact it was so
interesting I decided to go to Singapore to the Raffels Hotel just to find out where/when
and how this cocktail was created!
This drink to me has always been something special. No matter where you work in the
world there will be someone asking for this specific cocktail. I know there is 100 different
recipes out there that all say differently as to what I have learned.
The recipe I learned was supposed to be topped up with soda water, which in fact is not
the classic way, it’s actually supposed to be pineapple juice in this drink.
When I arrived in Singapore and finally came to the Raffles hotel they took us upstairs
where we walked in too this very cozy room. There was a band playing and people
eating peanuts and throwing the nut shells on the floor.
The nut shells on the floor first confused me and I looked at my friends, they just
laughed and started to throw nut shells on the floor. My friends told me it is a tradition
that you are meant to do this (quite fun experience I have to say).
We sat down at a table and we were ready to order in our Singapore slings. We didn’t
even have to look at a menu everyone just had to have this cocktail. After some waiting
the cocktails finally arrived.
To my biggest surprise tasting it I got pineapple flavor in my mouth and thinking I might
just have received the wrong drink? I reached down for the cocktail Menu on the table
and started to read the ingredients:
Classic Recipe
Category : Classic
Glass : Sling glass / Catalina
Ingredients : 30ml Gin
: 15 ml Heering Cherry Liqueur
: 120 ml Pineapple Juice
: 15ml Lime Juice
: 7,5ml Cointreau
: 7,5ml Dom Benedictine
: 10ml Grenadine, a Dash of Angostura bitters
Method : Shaken Strain into glass
Garnish : Pineapple and cherry
The History of the drink:
The Singapore Sling was created at Raffles Hotel at the turn-of-the-century by a
Chinese bartender Mr Ngiam Tong Boon.
In the hotels museum, Visitors may view the safe in which Mr Ngiam locked away his
precious recipe book, as well as the Sling recipe.
Originally, the Singapore Sling was meant as a woman’s drink, hence the attractive pink
colour. Today, it is very definitely a drink enjoyed by all, without which any visit to Raffles
Hotel is incomplete
I have to say trying the originally recipe made that way, I was not ready for it.
Because I have always assumed that it should contain soda instead of pineapple. With
the pineapple it became very round and soft and they might have had a little too much
greanadine for my liking in the one I received.
I have to say that I prefer the newer recipe to the older one which is a bit stronger in
taste. The recipe that I do these days goes like this
My Version
Catagory : Classic
Glass : Sling glass / Catalina
Ingredients : 1 1/2 shot Gin
: 1/2 shot Cheery Heering
: 1/2 shot lemon juice
: 1/4 shot Dom Benedectine
: 1/4 shot Cointreau
: Dash of greanadine
: 2 drops angostura bitters
: top up with soda
Method : Shaken Strain into Glass
Garnish : Lime, orange, cheery
I am not saying my version is a better one this is up for you to decide.
Please do try both and find out what’s up to your liking. If you are ever in Singapore the
Raffles Hotel is a must! 

Slippery Nipple
This layered shooter I haven’t found out where it comes from or who made it, or where it
has received its name.
To be honest it is not a very good shot either! Even so it is still one shooter that people
will recognize around the world.
It looks like it became famous sometimes around the 1980s I think that someone just
made an easier version of a B-52 and really loved the whole layering shooters thing.
This layered shot consist of Sambuca followed by a layer of Baileys on top.
If you want to make this drink a bit more interesting you can add 1 drop of grenadine on
top and it becomes a Brain Hemorage (Because the grenadine will look like a brain once
it sinks down into the white sambucca)
Name : Slippery Nipple
Glass : Shooter
Ingredients : 1/2 shot Sambuca (White)
: 1/2 shot Baileys
Method : Layer in shooter glass starting Sambuca then baileys.
Garnish : None
If you add a drop of grenadine it turns into a Brain Hemorage (Some do there Brain
Hemorage with Peach schnapps instead of Sambuca)
Whiskey Sour
The drink that always works no matter what! If you are tired after work, long day in the
cold or a nice dinner party with a good cigar with your friends YES I am talking about the
good classic Whiskey sour.
This excellent classic cocktails first recipe dates back to 1862 in Jerry Thomas book, His
recipe goes in the line of 2oz bourbon (59ml) 1oz lemon juice (29ml) 1 teaspoon powder
sugar.
This recipe is very similar to what I have learned where I was told to use 2 shots
bourbon, 1 shot Lemon juice 1/2 shot sugar.
This recipe works really well it is a few things regards this drink that you should know
thou.
If someone asks for a whiskey sour they do mean Bourbon, but some people might want
it with some other whiskey not just a bourbon most hopefully they will specify which
whiskey.
You should always ask the customer if they prefer any specific bourbon(or other
whiskey).
This drink is easy to make and you should find it quite easy to balance. This drink is
most commonly served on the rocks in a tumbler but, it do happen that they would like it
straight up and then you switch to a martini glass.
Classic Recipe
Category : Classic
Glass : Tumbler/Martini
Ingredients : 2 shots Bourbon
: 1 shot lemon juice
: 1 bars poon fine powder sugar

Method : Shake well and strain into glass
Garnish : Orange slice and cheery
This as I said is the recipe I learned as well. As for today I have changed and edited my
recipe here and there.
First of all a lot of people like it with a dash of Angostura bitters, so do I.
I put 2 small drops in my whiskey sours. Instead of using powder sugar I have changed
it to be sugar syrup it is easier to get it mixed into the drink and also to keep the
consistency.
Also I use a little bit of egg white in my sours due to when you shake them you get a
better foam on top. To get the egg white into the drink is easy I always crack it before
starting my work and put the egg white in a push container like the ones for soap for
hands.
This is where some people might disagree with me but I put a very small amount of
orange juice in mine. This to round the texture and make it more soft.
I do think it becomes more balanced like this. It does not mean that I am right it is just
what I like.
Please try and make up your own mind who knows maybe you will like it too!
The bourbon does a huge impact on the drink, so you choose one that you prefer. Also
to all people who are using Jack Daniels in this drink it’s not wrong to do it but it isn’t
right either! Jack Daniels Is NOT A BOURBON it is a Tennessee whiskey.
My Recipe goes like this:
Category : Classic
Glass : Tumbler/Martini
Ingredients : 2 shots Bourbon
: 1 shot lemon juice
: 1/2 shot sugar syrup
: 1/5 fresh shot fresh orange juice
: 1-2 drops Angostura bitters
: Egg white

Method : Shake well and strain into glass on the rocks
Garnish : Orange &Lemon slice and cheery
Try my recipe try the classic and then you will find the one that you prefer.
Maybe you have a better one already.
With the Sours, Whiskey sour is the most common of them all, but there is a lot of them
out there.
You can make it with almost any spirit. Basically you just need to change the basic spirit
and replace with another. There are a few exceptions out there for example Disoranno
Amaretto you need to put less sugar in it due to the high sugar taste already from this
almond liqour.
Midori (Melon Liquor) you take away the sugar totally. If you using my recipe I will say
that I only use the bitters for whiskey sours and not for Vodka, Gin etc., There is one
sour that is very big specially in Italy its Aperol Sour (Aperol is a rhubarb Liquor Italian
Aperitif) With this Low Alcoholic Aperitif liquor it is very nice to down the sugar to 1/4
shot in your sour, It is very nice to add a bit of fresh pink grapefruit into this drink before
shaking it. It will get more lively flavors.
This drink is an absolute must in summer!
Spritzer/Aperol Spritzer
The Spritzer is thought to been created in the 19th century when the Austrian was
occupying Italy.
The word Spritzer might come from the German word "Spritzen" Meaning Spray, It is
said that the Austrian wine at the time was so high Alcohol that the soldiers diluted it with
water, this drink then became more popular and started to spread thru Italy and new
versions popped up.
One that became very big is Aperol Spritzer which is a very refreshing drink.
Today people often come to the bar and ask for a Spritzer!
Most bars serve it in a hiball glass on the rocks toped up with soda and a slice of lemon.
If someone orders a Spritzer from me I take a wine glass to serve it in. Instead of putting
a lemon slice I just do a lemon zest.
A spritzer contains White wine with soda, and ice. Different places do different amounts
of wine to soda, I like it with 2/3 White wine and 1/3 Soda.
If you are not sure what the guest wants you can always give them the soda can on the
side and they can choose for themselves.
Wine wise I like it with a Nice Sauvignon Blanc or maybe a Pinot Grigo, they work well in
this drink. Try with the different options you have available to you to see what you think
fits your palate.
Name : Spritzer
Category : Classic
Glass : Wine glass/Hiball
Ingredients : 1 glass of white wine(225ml)(Depending on what size you serve your
wine in the place you are)
: Toped up with Soda (I put soda can next to drink so guest can
decide for them self)
Method : Pour white wine into glass on cubed ice and add soda
Garnish : Lemon slice (I like it with Lemon Twist)
Aperol Spritzer is a drink that have become more wide known and a popular drink.
If you are in Italy in Summer you will most likely have quite a few of these cocktails,
When serving a Aperol Spritzer you don’t use you normal wine instead it is meant to go
with Proseco (Italian Sparkling Wine) If you don’t have proseco, you can use any bubble
that you have available (not Rose though).
I like to serve it in a Wine glass, some people do it in a tumbler and some in a hiball.
Instead of the Lemon slice it is an Orange slice as garnish, I like it with an Orange twist
and lemon twist.
Aperol Spritzer has been served in a few movies, for instance the big hit "Meet the
Parents" Starring Robert de Niro, Dustin Hoffman, Barbra Streisand. In the movie
Robert de Niro’s character gets offered a Italian Spritzer instead of his usual Tom
Collins.
Name : Aperol Spritzer
Category : Classic
Glass : Wine glass/Hiball
Ingredients : 2 shots of Aperol
: Top up with Proseco (Champagne, MCC, Sparkling wine)
Method : Pour Aperol into glass on cubed ice, top up with Proseco
Garnish : Orange slice (I like it with Orange and Lemon Twist)
Tequila Sunrise
Agua Caliente is the place where the tequila Sunrise was born.
Agua Caliente is located 4 miles south of Tia Juana where Americans came to drink
them self silly and to enjoy a relaxed environment.
Because of the distance Agua Caliente managed to stay immune to the wide west
atmosphere up the road (For a short time anyway). It came to an end in 1927 when a
business man from San Diego wanted to turn Aqua Caliente into a whole new place for
Americans to go (because of to the Prohibition period in America) he made this place
the number one place to go for Hollywood stars and other rich American citizens, to
escape the dark times in America.
The motto of this place was "Where Drinking Never Ceased" all the wine and spirits
came to this place to make a market for themselves.
Drinking was the main activity to do here a lot of cocktails and books were written and
produced here.
One drink that raise from here is The Tequila Sunrise, it was made to be the
"Eye-opener" the number 1 Remedy for hangover and the drink that was invented here
does not look like the one you see today.
Today you associate the Tequila Sunrise with tequila, orange juice and some grenadine.
The classic recipe of a Tequila sunrise is different and it looks like this.
Name : Tequila Sunrise
Glass : Hiball
Ingredients : 2 shots Tequila
: 1/2 Lime squeezed
: 6 Dashes of Grenadine
: 2 dashes of creme de casis
: A few pieces of cubed ice
: toped up with Agua Caliente "Roca Blanca" water, If not available
some other fizzy water.
Method : Build on cubed ice and stir gently
Garnish : Lime peel
This drink was loved at the time and it was called the drink of the gods! The drink you
can never forget, loved by all men and women.
Because of its big popularity people brought the recipe back to America.
After a few years there came new recipes on this drink and that is why it now looks the
way it does.
This recipe has been recognized by the IBA (International Bartenders Association) to be
the classic recipe.
Name : Tequila Sunrise
Glass : Hiball
Ingredients : 2 shots Tequila
: 6 shots Orange juice
: 1/2 shot Grenadiene
Method : Build on cubed ice and stir gently
Garnish : Orange slice
It is interesting that a drink has changed into this which I didn’t know until starting my
research on this book.
The drink I have made when anyone has asked me for a Tequila sunrise would be the
one with orange juice.
It is on this I have made my twist on looking like this, 1 1/2 shot of Tequila, 1/2 shot
Cointreau, 1/2 shot Lemon juice, 4 shots orange juice shake, then pour into hiball
glass with Grenadine at the bottom so the shaken ingredients float on top.
Then give it an easy stir to mix them together and garnish with Orange slice and a
Cherry
Name : Tequila Sunrise
Glass : Hiball
Ingredients : 1 1/2 shot of Tequila
: 1/2 shot Cointreau
: 1/2 shot of Lemon juice
: 4 shot Orange juice
: 1/2 shot Grenadiene
Method : Put the grendine first then shake the other ingredints to float ontop
then gently stir.
Garnish : Orange slice, cherry
White Russian/ Black Russian
The White Russian is a well-known digestive cocktail that goes down really smoothly for
all types of people, Even people who doesn’t like alcohol can’t resist the blend of this
cocktail after a heavy meal (Unless you are lactose intolerance).
The White Russian comes from the cocktail called a Black Russian which dates back to
the end of the 1940s.
A black Russian is 1 shot of vodka and 1 shot of Kalhua in a whiskey glass on cubed
ice. There is an option that some people like and it is to have it in a hiball glass and top it
up with Coca-Cola. I have not seen many people going for this option, they usually stick
to the first described way of this drink.
In 1965s they added cream to it and it then became the White Russian that got more
popular than its predecessor.
In 1998 a movie was made “The Big Lebowski” which is a really good comedy movie
about "The Dude" played by Jeff Bridges. And all he does in the movie is sipping his
white Russians, after this the Whiter Russian got a nick name and it was Big Lebowski,
There is a few way of making this cocktail that I have seen and done myself.
Some people use milk, but I don’t think its thick enough. Some use full heavy cream
which I think gets to thick.
That is why I use Half& Half (Half Milk & Half Full cream).
Then I do 1 shot vodka 1 shot kalhua on the rocks and then shake the Half& Half and
easily layer it on top of the drink.
Some like it when everything is shaken together. Nothing here is wrong it’s just different
approaches to the cocktail.
When it comes to the garnish it is also under discussion. Some like it with coffee beans,
some with a Cherry. I do like it with a cherry, breaks the color very nicely.
what is the recipe?
Name : White Russian
Category : Classic
Glass : Tumbler
Ingredients : 1 shots Vodka
: 1 shot Kalhua
: 1 shot Half& Half
Method : Build , stir Float half& half on top
Garnish : Cherry (some might want it with coffee beans)
(See next page for black Russian)
The Black Russian recipe is pretty much the same, just remember if they want it toped
up with Coca-Cola change glass to hiball.
Name : Black Russian
Category : Classic
Glass : Tumbler/Hiball
Ingredients : 1 shots Vodka
: 1 shot Kalhua
: (Optional Coca-Cola)
Method : Build, stir
Garnish : None
White Lady
The White lady is one of the older cocktails out there. It is a version of a margarita but
with gin instead of tequila
.
This drink as many others do have a intriguing history and there is an argument of who
created this classic drink,
It is said that Harry MacElhone created this drink in 1919 in Ciros Club London, and that
he originally used creme de menthe but later switched to Gin in Harrys bar in Paris in
1929.
The other person who claims to have created this cocktail also his name is Harry
Craddock and he has the recipe printed in his Book "The Savoy Cocktail Book"
published in 1930
It is possible that both of them came up with a very similar drink at the same time as this
is not unheard off.
The name comes from an old folklure in medieval times. The story goes :
“The White lady of Scotland’s Castle was the daughter of the manor whose affair with a
servant was discovered. As punishment she was locked away in one of the towers and
in her tortured states she committed suicide leaping from the high tower. It is now said
she Haunts the place”.
There is a lot of stories about a white lady who haunts places, and this is not the only
story of "The White Lady"
Luckily for us the cocktail is not haunted or nothing to be afraid of. Instead it is actually a
quite a pleasant drink!
The old recipes when referring to the Gin “the London Dry Gin” was not the choice at the
time but more likely "Hollander gin, Genever Gin"
Which makes the drink a bit sweeter then when made with the London Dry Gin.
That is why I like to add a small splash of sugar into my version just to round the taste
off, otherwise the classic recipe goes like this:
Name : White Lady
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini glass
Ingredients : 1 1/2 shot of Gin (Hollander Gin)
: 1/2 shot Cointreau
: 1/2 shot of lemon juice
Method : Shake and fine strain into chilled glass
Garnish : None
This is the classic recipe and it works.
There are a few things here that different bartenders will do differently! Many use a bit of
egg white, there is nothing wrong with that. Just make sure not to put too much, a bar
spoon will be sufficient enough.
Measurements may vary from person to person. I like to put a garnish on the drink so a
lemon zest or even a small orange zest is nice to top it off with.
As I said before I like to round the taste off with a small splash of sugar to make it a bit
softer.
Name : White Lady
Category : Classic
Glass : Martini glass
Ingredients : 1 1/4 shot of Gin
: 3/4 shot Cointreau
: 1/2 shot of lemon juice
: Dash of Sugar syrup
Method : Shake and fine strain into chilled glass
Garnish : Small Lemon (Or Orange) Zest
Zombie
Zombie is one of the good Rum drinks that have become a Classic.
The history of the Zombie is both complex and interesting.
It is said that this drink was created in the late 1930 by Donn Beach of Hollywoods Don
the Beachcomber restaurant. Donn made the drink out for a friend who was visiting one
day.
The friend of Donn was afraid of flying and needed something for the flight. Donn then
mixed up this drink, and 2 drinks later his friends left to catch his plane.
A few days later the friend returned and complained to Donn that the drink that he gave
him made him into a "Zombie" (Hence the name of the drink). The thing with the drink
was that the fruity and smooth taste concealed the large amount of alcohol that was in
there.
So Donn’s friend didn’t realize how much alcohol he actually consumed.
The "story" is that the original Zombie contained around 2 dl of spirits. What Donn did
was to allow only 2 per customer a day! Otherwise they would get to intoxicated.
If this is 100% accurate I am not sure.
The original recipe was kept a big secret. In all the menus and recipes that the
bartenders worked after was always coded. It would say 2 shots of Donns Special Mix
and that could basically mean anything, from the juices to a sugar etc.
The drink spread anyway and a lot of bars all around tried to copy it and make
something similar but no one succeeded. The originally recipe is said to have been
published in "Slippin Safari" by Jeff Berry. The recipe that I have learned goes like this:
Name : Zombie
Glass : Hiball/zombie glass
Ingredients : 1 shot White Rum
: 1 shot Dark Rum
: 1/2 shot Gold Rum
: 2 shots Pineapple juice
: 1/2 shot of Grapefruit juice
: Dash of grenadine
: 3/4 shot Lime juice
: 2 drops angostura bitters
: Float Over proofed Rum on top
Method : Shake and stain into glass on crushed ice
Garnish : Pineapple and mint sprig
It is not always easy to get a good zombie when you order one. Sometimes the barman
might not even know this classic. But if you do ask for one and receive a good Zombie
you can be sure that the barman defiantly has studied his cocktail history!