- (f FSI6J4J1 cS 



^7 



HARRY JOHNSON'S 



NEW AND IMPROVED 



BARTENDER'S MANUAL 



-« ■ • ? or $=:-"» - 

HOW TO MIX DRINKS OF THE PRESENT STYLE 

IN ENGLISH AND GERMAN. 




Aprs 



Practisches, Neues und Verbessertes 

HANDBUCH 

fur Barkeeper, Salon- und Hotelbesitzer, 




Deutsch und Englisch. 



Samisch A Goldmann, Printers, 85 <fe 87 Chatham St., N. Y, - 



Price, so Cents. 



HEW AHD IMPROVED 





IJLL 



•OR: 



<H0¥»T0«MIX«DRINKS:>- 



^OF THE# 



.--PRESENT STYLE, . 



^9 



; ANDf 



CONTAINING A VALUABLE LIST OF INSTRUCTIONS 
AND HINTS OF THE AUTHOR IN REFERENCE 
TO ATTENDING BAR, AND ALSO A LARGE LIST 
OF MIX-DRINKS TOGETHER WITH A COM- 
PLETE LIST OF BAR UTENSILS, WINES, 
LIQUORS, ALES, MIXTURES, dc. 

HARRY JOHNSON, 

PUBLISHER & PROFESSIONAL BARTENBEB 




INSTRUCTOR OF THE ART HOW TO TEND BAR. 



Entered according to Act of Congress, m the year 1882, by 

HARRY JOHNSON, 
in the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington* 



A SHORT SKETCH BY THE PUBLISHER OF 
THE BARKEEPER'S MANUAL. 



In presenting this Manual to the public, I beg the 
indulgence for making a few remarks in regard to my- 
self having been in the Hotel and Saloon business, 
in various capacities since my boyhood, studying and 
practising the tastes and fancies of the public in regard 
to drinking, and having travelled all over this and 
other countries, I have after careful preparation, time 
and expense, compiled this work, which I will challenge 
any party to criticize against or find one receipt which 
is not fully and completely prepared. I have been em- 
ployed in some of the most prominent, leading and first 
class Hotels and Saloons in this city as well as all other 
parts of the United States and other countries, from 
which I have the very highest letters of recommenda- 
tion, as to my complete knowledge of managing a 
Saloon, and preparing drinks of every kind and form. 
This work will clearly show how to prepare, mix, and 
serve every drink known to be desired by the public, 
or at the present day in style ; I have prepared every 
drink in a plain, straight-forward manner, that is known 
all over the world, such as the popular Mixed Drinks, 
Cocktails, Punches, Fancy Drinks, &c, in addition the 
book will give you the entire and complete instructions 
to be observed in tending bar, in regard how to con- 
duct yourself, what to do in opening a Saloon in the 
morning, how to serve and wait on customers, and all 
the plain details connected with the business, that any 



— 4 — 



person contemplating, entering the business of a bar- 
tender, lias a complete and valuable guide, in the worts 
you will also find all the Bar Utensils, Liquors, Glass 
and Silverware you require, the different brands of 
mixtures and beverages you will use and how to use 
them, and also a large list of valuable hints to bar- 
tenders, how to keep a Saloon, in what manner to 
construct it, and in fact every item that is of any use 
whatever from the moment you become a bartender to 
the requirements of the present day. I have also made 
it my profession for many years back to teach and learn 
the art of tending bar to any party having an inclination 
to do so, in the past years I have taught a great num- 
ber of parties the profession, and I can with pride refer 
to them, as to my fitness as an instructor of Bartend- 
ing. In conclusion, let me say, that this work will not 
only be very valuable to the entire profession it is in- 
tended for, but will prove to a great advantage to all 
families, and all the public in general, as a complete 
guide in preparing or mixing drinks; it will contain 
nothing but the most resjDeetable and interesting read- 
ing. I remain 

Your obedient servant 

HARRY JOHNSON. 



I N 33 E X 



X umber. Page. 

1. How to tend Bar 9 

2. Rules m Reference to a Gigger 10 

3. Hints from the Author 10 

4. Rules and Regulations about opening Champagne 11 

5. Rules about serving Drinks at the table 11 

6. Rules about cleaning Silverware 12 

7. Rules about handling Liquors, Ales, &c 12 

8. Rules about Ales &c. in casks 12 

9. Rules about handling Champagnes &c 13 

10. Rules about handling Mineral Water 13 

11. Rules about Cordials, Syrups, Bitters &c 14 

12* Rules about handling Claret Wines, &c 14 

13. Rules about handling Egg, Fruit and Milk 14 

11. Rules about drawing Ales and Porter 14 

15. Rules about Lagerbeer 15 

16. Rules about drawing Lagerbeer 15 

17. Rules about Bottle Beer 16 

18. Rules in regard to opening Barrooms 16 

19. Rules in regard serving Drinks 1"/ 

20. Rules about keeping Glaswaare 17 

21. Rules about cooling Punches in bowls l£ 

21. Rules about handing out Bar Spoons 18 

23. Rules about finding out the desire of drinks 19 

24. Rules about the style of strained glasses 19 

25. Rules about handling Ice 19 

26. Rules in regard to dressing drinks with Fruits 19 

27. Rules to Bartenders in regards to coming and going off duty 20 

28. Hints by Author 20 

29. Rules how to keep Syrups, &c 20 

30. List of Liquors required in Saloons 21 

31. List of Barrooms Utensils, &c 22 

32. Champagne Cocktail 21 

33. Morning glory Fizz 21 

34. Egg Nogg 25 

35. Champagne Sour 25 

36. Milk Punch 25 

37. Curacao Punch 26 

38. Brandy Punch 26 

89. Port Wine Punch 26 

40. General Harrison Egg Nogg 27 

41. St. Croix Rum Punch 27 

42. Medford Rum Sour 27 

43. Champagne Cobbler 28 

44. St. Charles Punch 28 



N amber. 

45. Brandy Sangaree 28 

46. Mint Julep 28 

47. Fancy Whiskey Smash 29 

4*. Old Style Whiskey Smash 29 

49. Cold Whiskey Sling 29 

50. Gin Cocktail ., 30 

51. Absinthe Cocktail 3() 

52. Mississippi Punch 30 

53. Hot Whiskey 31 

54. How to mix Tom and Jerry 31 

55. How to deal out Tom and Jerry 32 

56. Tom and Jerry (cold) 32 

57 . Knickerbocker _ 32 

58. John Collins 32 

59. Whiskey Toddy 33 

60. Hot Scotch Whiskey Sling 33 

61. White L*on „. . 33 

62. Lemonade . 34 

63. Hot spiced Rum ..... 34 

64. Selters Lemonade 34 

65. Mulled Claret . 34 

66. Soda Cocktail 35 

67. Pousse Cafe 35 

68. Pousse L' Amour . . . 4 - 36 

69. Rhine Wine Cobbler 36 

70. Jersey Cocktail 36 

71. Silver Fizz 37 

72. Vanilla Punch 37 

73. Hot Milk Punch 37 

74. Baltimore Egg Nogg 38 

75. Sherry Cobbler../. 38 

76. Fancy Brandy Cocktail 38 

77. California, Sherry Wine Cooler 39 

78. Gin Fizz 39 

79. Vermouth Cocktail 39 

80. Kirschwasser Punch 40 

81 . Brandy Fizz 40 

82. Whiskey Julep 40 

83. Whiskey Crusta 40 

84. Fancy Brandy Smash 41 

85. Jamaica Rum Sour 41 

86. Sherry Flip 41 

87. Whiskey Fix 4 2 

88. Port Wine Sangaree 42 

89. Whiskey Cocktail 42 

90. Whiskey Fizz 43 

91. Roman Punch 43 

92. Sherrv Wine Punch 43 



Number. Page. 

93. ADple Jack Sour 43 

94. Gin Smash ,44 

95. Medford Rum Punch 44 

96. Hot Rum 44 

97. Orange Lemonade 45 

93. Stone Fence 45 

99. Port Wine Punch 45 

100. Gin Toddy 45 

101. Hot irish Punch 46 

102. Wine Lemonade t 46 

103. Soda Lemonade 46 

104. Old Tom Gin Cocktail 46 

105. Hot Arrack Punch 47 

106. Philadelphia boating Punch 47 

107. Tip top Punch 47 

108. Brandy Crusta 47 

109. Gin Julep 48 

110. Porter Sangaree 48 

111. Brandy Fix 49 

112. Brandy Flip 49 

113. California Wine Cobbler 49 

114. Whiskey Sour 49 

115. St. Croix Rum Fix 50 

116. Sherry Wine Sangaree « 50 

117. Brandy Sour 50 

118. Port Wine Flip 51 

119. Stone Wall 51 

120. Italian Wine Lemonade 51 

121. Tom Collins 51 

122. Hot Locomotive 52 

123. Knickerbein , 52 

124. Brandy Sling 52 

125. Hot Apple toddy 53 

126. Medford Rum Smash 53 

127. Brandy Champerelle 53 

128. Santina's Pousse Cafe 54 

129. Hot Gin Sling 54 

130. Port Wine Cobbler 54 

131. Sautern Cobbler 54 

132. Gin Sour 55 

133. Ale Sangaree 55 

134. Gin Fix 55 

135. Sherry Wine Egg Nogg 56 

136. St. Croix Crusta 56 

137. Cold Brandy Toddy 57 

138. Hot Lemonade 57 

139. Toledo Punch 57 

140. Rock & Reye Whiskey 58 



— 8 — 



Number. Page. 
L41. Whiskey Smash 58 

142. St. Croix Sour 58 

143. Brandy Scaffa 59 

144. Faivres Pousse Cafe 59 

145. Gin and Tansy 59 

146. Bowl of Egg Nogg for a New Years Party 59 

147. Egg Lemonade 60 

148. Brandy and Gum 60 

149. Sherry and Egg 61 

150. Brandy and Soda 61 

151. Arf and Arf 61 

152. Soda and Nectar 61 

153. Sherry Wine and Ice 62 

154. Egg Milk Punch 62 

155. Sherry Wine and Bitters 62 

156. Rhine Wine and Selters Water 63 

157. May Wine Punch 63 

158. How to mix Absinthe . . . .' 63 

159. Pony glass of Brandy 64 

160. American style of mixing Absynthe 64 

161. Bishop ,....64 

162. Brandy Straight 65 

163. Brandy and Ginger Ale 65 

164. Italian style of mixing Absynthe 65 

165. Gin and Wormwood 66 

166. Claret and Champagne cup a la Brunow 66 

167. Balaklava Nectar 67 

168. Blue Blazer 67 

169. Peach and Honey 1 67 

170. Burnt Brandy and Peach 68 

171. Blak Stripe 68 

172. Orchard Punch 68 

173 . Gin and Molasses 69 

174. Mulled Claret and Egg 69 

175. East India Cocktail 69 

176. Whiskey Cobbler 70 

177. Whiskey and Cider 70 

178. Gin and Milk 70 

179. Bottle Cocktail for a party 70 

180. Champagne Julep 71 

181. Soldiers Camping Punch 71 

182. Golden Slipper - . 71 

183. Bom Bay Punch 71 

184. Gin and Calamus „ 72 

185. Orgeat Lemonade 72 

186. Prussian Grandeur Punch 73 

187. Empires Punch 73 

188. Golden Fizz 74 



1. HOW TO ATTEND BAR 

in regard to tl\e general appearance of the 
bartender, and how to conduct themselves 
at all times whei\ on duty, etc., etc. 

The author of this work has after careful delibera- 
tion compiled the annexed rules connected with prop- 
erty managing a saloon, and would suggest the follow- 
ing instructions in regard to tending a bar, he has 
endeavored to the best of his ability to state them in a 
perfectly plain and straight-forward manner, and it 
must be understood that in tending bar, the business 
must be carried on in a systematically and proper man- 
ner, the same as any other business. 

When serving customers at any time, it is of the 
highest importance for a bartender to be strictly polite 
and attentive in all his ways and doings, and especially 
in his manner of speech, by giving prompt answers to 
all questions, as far as lay in his power, be cheerful, 
have a bright and pleasant countenance, and again, it 
is of very great importance to be of a neat, clean and 
tidy address, as that will prove more to the interest of 
the bartender than any other matter; have a j^leasant 
and cheerful word with everyone, as that will als^ draw 
considerable, with customers, and prove to the ad- 
vantage to the bartender serving them. 

It is also proper that when a party steps up to the 
bar, it is the bartender's place to set before the cus- 
tomer a glass of ice water, then in a polite and genteel 
manner find out what he may desire, and if any mixed 
drinks should be called for, the barkeeper's duty is, to 
mix and prepare them above the counter, and let the 
customer or parties see them, and they should be pre- 
pared in such a quick and scientific way, as to. draw 
attraction; and it also must be the bartender's duty to 
see that the glasses and everything used with the 
drinks are perfectly clean, und the glasses bright and 



polished up, then, when the customer has finished and 
left the bar, the bartender's duty is, to clean well and 
thoroughly wipe up the counter, so that it will have a 
good and neat appearance again, and then, if the time 
should allow the bartender to do so, he should clean 
the glasses used in a well and clean manner, so to have 
them ready again when desired; then, in regard to the 
bench, which is an important branch of managing a 
bar proj^erly, it is the bartender's utmost duty to have 
his bench cleared up and in good trim at all times, 
which he will rind a very e'ood advantage, if done so 
properly, and have everything handy and in good 
shape. 

2. JOULES IN I^EFEI^ENCE TO A GIGGER. 

In all my receipts of the various drinks, you will find 
the words "wine glass" as the article to be used in 
mixing drinks; now, that word "wine glass" is only 
proper to be used in compiling those receipts, but the 
only proper article to be used is a gigger for measur- 
ing the mixture, etc., as it is made of silver-plated 
metal, looks like a sherry glass, with the exception of 
not having as long a stem, and is more durable, it is 
impossible to break it, and it is used by all first-class 
bartenders with the exception of those who are first- 
class experts in mixing drinks, and are so active, as to 
measure without any gigger or glass whatever. 

3. HINTS FROM THE AUTHOR 

The author of this work would like to make a few 
remarks in regard to an important branch that has 
been neglected in a very poor manner, and that is, 
wherever you go or whatever saloon you visit, you will 
find, no matter, how elegant the place is furnished or 
fitted up, the bench constructed in generally a very 
mean and ill-shaped way, with but few exceptions, 
which shows off to a very poor advantage. Now, the 
remedy I would recommend is that, when a party has 



— 11 — 



a saloon or bar room to be fitted up, he Avon Id make it 
his personal point of having the bench constructed in a 
comfortable and neat manner, so that it will show off 
and be handy at all times, especially in regard to ice 
and water boxes, etc., and have it wide and convenient, 
so that bottles can be placed between the bench and 
the top of the counter. 

4. RULES AND REGULATIONS 

as to the style of opening champagnes, and 
the forms of serving the same. 

In serving champagne, the proper way to proceed is 
for the bartender, to take a bottle from the ice contain- 
ing the wine, and get the wire off, and then cut the 
string attached to the cork under the neck of the bottle 
only, as by doing the same in any other manner, would 
let some of the string remain on the bottle, to which is 
always sticking some sealing wax or other substance, 
which is liable to get mixed with the wine when pour- 
ing some out, and when the cork is removed from the 
bottle, it is proper to take -a clean towel and perfectly 
clean off the top of the bottle, to prevent anything ad- 
hering to it; when a party comes in together, place 
the glasses before them, and then pour in your 
wine, but as an act of propriety pour into that party's 
glass who called for it the wine at last. This lule is 
observed in all other wines as in the above. In refer- 
ence to champagne, if a party calls for it at a table, 
place the bottle of wine in the ice cooler filled with ice 
and serve in this manner; it is also not proper to un- 
cork any bottle of wine when called for at a table, until 
it is placed on the table before the parties. 

5. I^ULES TO BE OBSERVED 

in reference to what bartenders must do 
when called upon to serve drinks at tables, 

When the bartender is called upon to serve any kind 
of a wine, or other kind of bottle drinks to a table, it 



— .12 



is Lis duty to send the glasses with the bottle, so that 
the parties can help themselves, and if there should be 
a check system, the checks should be sent at the same 
time With the drinks, to prevent confusion thereafter. 

6. I^ULES TO BE OBSERVED 

in reference to cleaning silverware, etc, etc. 

It is very simple to clean silverware, but still the 
author would like to make a few suggestions. The 
proper way is to take No, 2 whitening, dissolved well 
with water or spirits, and then it must become as thin 
as water, and then take your silverware and clean it at 
first perfect from all substance sticking to it. then 
apply your whitening very thin on to it, and let it dry, 
and then rub it off with a towel, and polish up with a 
shammy, and if you can not get at every article with 
the shammy, use the silver brush, and clean it thor- 
oughly until every particle of whitening has disap- 
peared, and it is all well cleaned. 

7. r\ULES AND REGULATIONS 

in reference to handling liquors 5 ales, porters, 
and all bottle goods in a proper manner. 

In handling liquors, such as brandies, whiskies, gins, 
etc., that are in casks, it is proper to have them placed 
on a skid, in such a jxLace where the temperature is 
medium^ and again in bottled liquors, the correct way 
is to put them in a lying position, and not to stand 
them up, so that the corks will be moistened at all 
times, which is to prevent the strength of the same to 
escape. 

8. HOW TO HANDLE ALES AND PORTER 
IN CASKS, 

It is proper to tap the above at all times before plac- 
ing them on skids, and give them plenty of time to rest 
and settle before drawing, and have them placed in a 
medium temperature . 



— 13 — 



9. RULES AND REGULATIONS 
in reference to handling champagnes, etc. 

In regard to the above wines they must never, at any 
time, be kept on ice in larger quantities than is abso- 
lutely necessary for use, but if there should happen to 
be on ice more than the demand calls for, they should 
be left so, but not removed from there, as by taking 
them from the ice and letting them get warm again, 
and then placing them on ice again makes them lose 
their strength and flavor, and if once placed on ice, 
they should be very close to the temperature of freez- 
ing, and particular care should then be taken in hand- 
ling them, as champagne bottles are very apt to break 
by the least crack or hard usage, in consequence of the 
gas contained in the champagne, and have them also 
lying in the same position as other wines; also the 
same rules in regard to lying must be observed in other 
wines, such as Ehine wines, Mosel, Sherry, Port wines, 
Claret wines, etc. 

10. RULES AND REGULATIONS 
to be observed in reference to mineral 
waters, etc. 

The above waters are absolutely necessary to be kept 
in a cool place at all times, so that when serving any of 
them, they will be cold and pleasant enough without 
the use of ice, being mixed with them in the glass, and 
it is an important fact that Syphon seltzers and Vichy 
waters must not be placed direct on the ice, as by so 
doing, there is great danger connected with it, as these 
waters all contain more or less gas, and therefore are 
likely to explode from the consequences of placing 
them into a sudden cold temperature, but they must 
be placed in an ice box and allowed to gradually cool 
down to a right degree; the above rules must be 
strictly observed with all mineral waters known to con- 
tain any explosive material. 



— 14 — 



II, JOULES ABOUT CORDIALS, BITTERS, 
AND SYRUPS. 

In regard to cordials, bitters and syrnps they are not 
placed on ice, but are put in a medium temperature. 

12. RULES AND REGULATIONS 

to be observed h\ reference to liar\dlirig 
Claret wines, ete. 3 etc. 

The above wines must be handled very carefully; 
first, they should be placed in a temperature of be- 
tween 60 and 65 degrees; then, in serving them, atten- 
tion must be paid not to shake the bottles when hand- 
ling them, and also when pouring out, as there is at all 
times some sediment on the bottom of the bottle, which, 
if shaked in any manner, would be apt to mix it with 
the wine, and these wines must also be laid in a lying 
position. 

13. RULES TO BE OBSERVED 

irv reference to fruits } eggs and milk. 

All fruits, eggs and milk, must always be kept in a 
perfectly cool place, or an ice box. as by so doing they 
will be preserved much longer and prevent them from 
decaying and becoming bad, 

14. P V ULES AND REGULATIONS 

to be observed ir\ reference to drawing ales, 
porters, etc., etc, 

Ik drawing ales and porters the proper way is. to 
draw them direct from the casks, or what is called from 
the wood, providing there is plenty of room and the 
convenience of doing so. In drawing ales and porters 
through the pipes, it is necessary to pay attention to 
this fact, that your pipes are only made from the best 
of material, and also to have your pipes cleaned as 
often as possible, so that they are at all times in a per- 



— 15 — 



fectly clean condition, then in the morning all ales and 
porter that are still in the pipes, should be drawn out 
and not used, so as to give customers a fresh and clear 
glass of any if desired. 

In regard to ales in bottles, they should be laid in a 
lying position, and only those that you intend to use 
you must leave in a standing position, and in a cool. 
jxLaee for three or four days to allow the sediment to go 
to the bottom, and be careful when handling to prevent 
the sediment to mix with the ale. 

15. A FEW WORDS BY THE AUTHOR 
in regards to trie great drir\k Lagerbeer. 

The above drink is so well known not only in this 
country, but in all parts of the world, that the author 
does not think it necessary to make any great remarks 
about it, but will only say this, that the same attention 
must be paid to it as there is to any other liquors or 
beverages, as it depends wholly on the handling of 
beer, to give it a nice and refreshing taste, and it 
should at all times be kept in a temperature according 
to the atmosphere, say in summer between 40 and 45 
degrees, and should at all times be kejjt at least in the 
ice box three or four days before tapping it. 

16. JOULES AND REGULATIONS 
to be observed ii\ drawing Lagerbeer. 

In drawing lagerbeer the proper way is to draw it 
direct from the keg. and the first one or two glasses 
are not to be used, until the beer runs clear, and 
if the beer should not run freely, the vent must be 
knocked in the bung. In drawing lagerbeer through 
pipes, they also must be of the best material, and be 
kept perfectly clean and in good order. It is generally 
customary where lagerbeer is drawn from the pipes, to 
have an air or water pressure kept continually on the 
beer, to prevent it from getting flat or stale, but will 
give it a fresh and pleasant taste. 



— 16 — 



But proper attention must be paid to keep the boiler 
containing the air in a perfectly clean condition, and if 
the boiler should stand or be in a place where the 
atmosphere is foul or impure, it would be advisable to 
connect a pipe with the above pump and boiler, that 
would run out in some place, where the air which con- 
denses with the boiler, would be perfectly fresh and 
purified, as otherwise it would give the beer a bad 
taste and be liable to make any party drinking it sick, 
and the beer remaining in the pipes through the night 
are not to be used in the morning; again the attention 
must be called to this fact, that there must not be too 
much pressure on the beer, as that would prevent it 
from running freely through the pipes, but will mostly 
be froth and cream, and again there is danger of an 
explosion, especially when and where the water pres- 
sure is very strong, which, if should occur, would be 
liable to destroy the beer kegs, pipes, and all the rub- 
ber hose connected with the boiler, but the danger is 
more to be apprehended at night than during the day. 

17. RULES ABOUT BOTTLED BEE£\. 

In bottled beer it is altogether different, it must not 
be kept on ice, but in a very cool place, in an ice box, 
in a standing position, to let the sediment settle. 

18. THE FIRST DUTY IN OPENING A BAI\ 
I^OOM IN THE MOANING. 

The greatest attraction of a bar room is the appear- 
ance of it. Xow, the first thing a bartender must do 
in the morning on opening a saloon is, to give the 
place a perfect ventilation; after that is accomplished, 
prepare your ice water, so as to be ready in case it is 
demanded, then turn to all your bottles, such as those 
containing Liquors, Mixtures, etc., and see that they are 
filled and corked, place those that are required on ice; 
when that part is finished, have your assistant or porter 



17 — 



to clean the floor properly, and then dust all the wood- 
work, clean and polish the windows, mirrors, etc. ; when 
all that is done, then go to work on your bench, place 
all the glassware on top of the counter, but using as. 
little space as is consistent, so in case you have during 
that time a customer, you have plenty of room to wait 
on him; then give the bench a perfect scrubbing or 
washing; then wash your glassware well in clean water, 
and place those back again on the bench which belong* 
there; then see that your bar or ice boxes are filled up 
with fine shaved ice, have your bar and all other bot- 
tles well cleaned and polished, then pay particular 
attention that your wines and liquors are nice, cool and 
pleasant to drink, and then cut up your fruits that you 
will require during the day, such as oranges, pine- 
apples, berries, and cocktail peels, and see that your 
roller towels and napkins are perfectly clean and 
changed as often as is necessary, and have everything 
handy for business, etc. 

19. INSTRUCTION 
in regard to what must be observed wher> 
called upon for drinks, etc., etc. 

The author respectfully calls the bartenders' atten- 
tion to the above, which rule is, that when any party 
or parties call for any plain or mixed drinks whatever, 
there must be placed at first before him or them a glass 
of ice water, so that, if the customer desires to partake 
of some, he has an opportunity to do so, this rule must 
not be neglected under any circumstance whatever; in 
other drinks, such as Rhine wines, etc., the above rule 
is not to be observed, unless requested, 

20. THE STYLE AND MANNER 

in which to keep your glassware, etc. 

The bartenders' particular attention is called to this 
rule : It is always highly important to see that your 



— 18 — 



glassware is perfectly clean, bright, and polished when 
handing any out to parties or a customer to help him- 
self to a drink, and also when you mix any chinks of any 
kind, see that they have not any kind of marks on. 
them, but are in good condition, and then after serving 
drinks, be particular in washing and polishing up the 
glassware again at your first opportunity, and keep 
them in good trim; and then use only these towels 
used for the glassware for no other purpose than for 
the polishing and cleaning of the above. 

21. INSTRUCTIONS 
relative to Bowels containing Punches. 

It is considerable of importance to know in what 
manner to cool the above properly. The only right 
way is: Take a large tin dish of sufficient size to hold 
your bowl containing the punch, then place the bowl 
into it, and completely fill up and surround the same 
with fine shaved ice, fill it up over the edge of the bowl, 
which will give it a beautiful appearance; then sprinkle 
a little rock salt on top of the ice to prevent it from 
dissolving, and if the bartender has some leaves or 
other ornament, they will show off to a good advantage 
by placing them on the ice; in this manner your punch 
will have a coo 1 and refreshing taste at all times; line 
the outside of the dish with towels, to give it a bright 
and cheerful look, 

22. INSTRUCTION 

relative to handing out Spoons for Mixed 
Drinks, etc, 

In serving mixed drinks it is proper to conveniently 
hand the customer a spoon, that, if he desires to take 
out a piece of the fruit from the glass, he can do so, 



— 19 — 



23. INSTRUCTION 
in regard to finding out the desire of cus- 
stomers' styles of drinks, etc., etc. 

The greatest satisfaction to a customer lies with the 
bartender to accomplish, which is done in a very slight 
manner, simply by asking what kind of a drink the 
party desires, and in what manner he desires to have it 
mixed, especially in cocktails, sours, and punches; also 
it is understood for the bartender to ask the party if 
he desires his drink stiff, strong, or medium, and must 
use his own judgment in regard of preparing it, and at 
all times make it his special point to study the taste of 
his customers, and strictly obey them, and make all 
drinks to their taste; by following this rule, the bar- 
tender will soon find out that he will gain the esteem 
and respect of his jDatrons. 

24. INSTRUCTIONS 
to wl\at style of a glass to use in Strained 
Drinks, 

In preparing the above drinks, proper attention must 
be paid to see that the glasses are the right size to 
sufficiently hold the drink it is intended for, and also 
to have a fancy glass to put the drink into and make 
it have a better appearance. 

25. INSTRUCTION 

about handling the ice, etc. 

It is always proper to handle the ice with an ice 
scoop and positively not with the hands, and it must 
be washed perfectly clean before being used. 

26. INSTRUCTIONS 

in regards to dressing Drinks with Fruits, 
and how to handle them, etc, 

It is always customary to dress or ornament drinks 
with the fruit in different styles ; first when drinks are 

2* 



— 20 — 



strained after being mixed, the fruit is placed into the 
strained glass, but when there is no straining, the fruit 
is placed on top; the fruit must at all times be handled 
with a handsome fork, 

27. THE RULES OF BA^TENDE^S 

in regard to coming on and going off Duty. 

"When the proj)er time arrives for a bartender to 
leave, it is his duty to see that his bench is in perfect 
order, all his bottles filled, ice box have sufficient ice 
in it, and all the glassware clean, and everything in 
good shape and in such a manner that, when his relieve 
arrives, he will not be prevented from serving custom- 
ers by not having everything in good shape and handy 
to his convenience; and when the relieve arrives, it is 
also his duty to see that nothing has been neglected, 
but all has been satisfactorily performed. 

28. HINTS BY THE AUTHOR, 
l\ow to draw corks from certain wines 
having tin foil caps on. 

The proper style of drawing a cork from wines or 
any bottle liquors having a cap on them is, that it is 
not proper to take off the entire cap, but to cut off 
only the top of it, and then take out the cork, which 
will be an easy matter, and the remaining cap will give 
a better look to the bottle. 

29. RULES HOW TO KEEP SYRUPS, ETC. 

In regard to syrups that are in bottles, jugs, demi- 
johns or any kind of dishes, particular care must be 
taken to prevent ants or any other insects from getting 
into them, as they are apt to do, and they must be kept 
in a cool place; and if a cool place is not conveniently 
to be found, take a dish of water and stand those mix- 
ture bottles containing the syrups in the water, as that 
will prevent any insects irom getting into any of them. 



— 21 — 



30. LIST OF LIQUORS 3 ETC., REQUIRED 
IN SALOONS, 

The annexed list of liquors will be found to be com- 
plete in the different brands as well, as a thorough and 
perfect list of wines, mineral waters, syrups, cordials, 
mixtures, bitters, ales, porters, sundries, fruits* eta, 
and great care and attention has been paid to give 
them in a precise and plain manner. 

LIQUORS. 

Brandy, different brands if required, Rye Whiskey, 
Bourbon Whiskey, Irish Whiskey, Scotch Whiskey, 
Holland Gin, Old Tom Gin, Jamaica Rum, St. Croix 
Rum, Medford Rum, Apple Jack or Brandy, Black 
Berry, Arrac, Alcohol. 

WINES. 

Champagne, Claret Wines, Rhine and Moselle Wines, 
Madeira, Hungarian Wines (red and white), Sauterne, 
Sherry, Burgundy, Port Wines (red and white), Bor- 
deaux Wines, California Wines, Catawba Wines, Tokay 
Wines, Spanish Wines. 

ALES AST) PORTERS. 

Imported Bass' Ales in casks and bottles, Imp. Guin- 
nesses extra, Stout in cases and bottles, Muir <t Sons 
Scotch Ales, Robert Younker's Scotch Ales, Stock Ales, 
New and Old Ales, Porter, Lagerbeer. 

CORDIALS. 

The list below annexed are the principal ones used 
for mixing purposes, and if others are required they 
can be procured. 

Absinthe, Benedictine, Chartreuse (green and yel- 
low), Russian Kimmel, Berlin Gilka, Curacao (red and 
white), Annisette, Maraschino, Yermouth, Kirsclrwasser, 
Danziger Goldwasser, Mint Cordial, Creme de Noyau, 
"Vanilla. 



— 22 — 



MINERAL WATERS* 

Belfast Ginger Ale, Domestic Ginger Ale, Kissingen 
Water, Apollinaris Water, Congress Water, Imp. Selters 
Water, Vichy Water, Syphon Selters Water, Lemon 
and Plain Soda Water, Sarsaparilla, Cider, Carbonic 
Acid Syphon, Hathorn Water. 

SYRUPS. 

White Gum Syrup, Raspberry Syrup, Pineapple 
Syrup, Lemon Syrup, Strawberry Syrup, Orange 
Syrup, Orchard Syrup, Rock Candy Syrup, Orgeat 
Syrup. 

BITTERS. 

Angostura Bitters, Boker's Bitters, Boonecamp Bit- 
ters, Hostetter's Bitters, Stoughton Bitters, Sherry 
Wine Bitters. 

FRUITS. 

Apples, Oranges, Peaches, Lemons, Limes, Pine- 
apples, Grapes, Strawberries, Blackberries. 

MIXTURES. 

Tansy, Honey, Calinus or Flag Root, Wormwood, 
Black Molasses, Eggs, Milk, Sugar (lumps and pul- 
verized), Jamaica Ginger, Peppermint, Mint, Pepper 
(red and black), Nutmeg, Cloves, Allspice, Coffee, Cin- 
namon, Roast Corn. 

SUNDRIES. 

Segars, Tobaccos, 

31. LIST OF THE UTENSILS IN COMPLETE 
FORM USED IN SALOONS, ETC. 

In giving the annexed list of the different utensils 
used in the various saloons, it has been the authors 
object to clearly present them in a plain and distinct 
manner. It must not be understood that all those 
articles hereto annexed must absolutely be required in 
every establishment, but are only indispensable in those 



places, where the demand will call for the rom, in other 
words, the most prominent places and first class saloons, 
and in any place where the business would require it. 

Liquor Measures. — Gallon, Half-gallon, Quart, Pint, 
Half-pint, Gill, Half-gill. 

Liquor Pump, Mallet, Filtering Bag or Paper, Beer 
and Ale Faucets, Brace and Bit, Liquor Gauge, Gimlet, 
Beer and Ale Measures, Bung Starter, Kubber Hose 
for drawing Liquor, Liquor Thieves, Thermometer, 
Funnels, Corkscrews, Hot Water Kettle, Bar Pitchers, 
Lemon Squeezers, Beer or Ale Vent, Ice Pick, Ice 
Cooler, Ice Shaver, Ice Scoop, Liquor Gigger, Shaker, 
long, twisted and short Bar Spoons, JuLep and Milk 
Punch Strainers, Spice Dish or Castor, Ale Mugs, Cork 
Pullers, Glass and Scrubbing Brush, Corks and Stop- 
pers (different sizes), Cork Press, Champagne Faucets 
for drawing Wine out of bottles, Molasses Jugs or 
Pitchers, Honey or Syrup Pitchers, Lemon Knifes, 
Sugar Spoons, Sugar Tongues, Egg Boaters, Sugar 
Pails, Nutmeg Box, Nutmeg Grinder, Cracker Bowls, 
Sugar Bowls, Punch or Tom and J erry Bowls, Pepper 
Boxes, Fruit Dishes, Punch Ladles, Duster and Broom. 
Silver Brush, Segar Cutter, Mop Handle and "Wringer, 
Glass Towels, Rollers, etc., Spitoons, Fancy Fruit 
Forks, Fancy Segar Plate or Basket, Liquor Labels, 
Pails for waste, etc., Match Boxes and Matches, Comb 
and Brush, Toilet Paper, Whiting for cleaning Silver- 
ware, Wrapping Paper for Bottle Goods, Toothpicks, 
Twine, Writing Paper, Envelopes, Postal Cards and 
Stamps, Ink, Mucilage, etc., Business Cards, Business 
Directory, Newspapers, Set of Books, Wash Soap, 
Demijohns (large and small), Bar Bottles, Mixture 
Bottles, Quart Flasks, Pint Flasks, Half-pint Flasks, 
Segar Bags, Julep Straws, Sponge, Window Brush, 
Dust Pan, Shot for cleaning bottles, Stepladder, Waiters. 

The following glassware is required : 

Champagne Goblets, Champagne Cocktail Glasses, 
Champagne Wine Glasses, John or Tom Collins Glasses, 



Julep or Cobbler Glasses. Claret Wine Glasses. Rhine 
Wine Glasses. Port Wine Glasses. Sherry TYine Glasses. 
Mineral Water Glasses, Absinthe Glasses. Cocktail and 
Sour Glasses, Hot Water Glasses. Whisker Glasses, 
Pony Brandy Glasses, Cordial Glasses, Water Glasses. 
Hot Apple Toddy Glasses, Ale. Porter and Beer 
Glasses. Pony Glasses. 

32. CHAMPAGNE COCKTAIS, 

(Use a Champagne Gohbiei. 
Is making all cocktail drinks it is proper to nil the 
glass with ice before you put in any ingredients, as it 
has a ranch better appearance. 

2 or 3 small lumps of crystal ice; 

1 or 2 slices of orange place on top of the ice: 
1 lump of loaf-sugar; 

1 or 2 dashes of bitters (Angostura only;: 

Fill the goblet with wine, stir* up well with a sj^oon, 
twist a piece of lemon -peel on top of it and serve. If 
it should happen, as is often the case, thai a party of 
two or three should enter a place and call for a cham- 
pagne cocktail, the proper way would bei for a bar- 
tender to inquire what kind of wine they desire, 
Mnmrn, Piper Heidsick, etc.; a sniall bottle being 
sufficient for three cocktails, and also that the sugar is 
handled at all times with a pair of tongues, and the 
frait with a fork. 

33, MORNING GLORY FIZZ. 

( Use a large bar glass. ) 

In all first-class barrooms it is proper to hare the 
whites of eggs separated into an empty bottle, provid- 
ing you have a demand for such a drink as above, and 
keep them continually on ice, as by doing so, consider- 
able time will be saved; mix as follows: 

Thrte-quarters table-spoonful of sugar: 

3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 

2 or 3 dashes of lime juice: 



3 or 4 dashes of absinthe, dissolved well witn 
little water; 

Three-quarter glass filled with fine shaved ice ; 

1 egg (the white only) ; 

1 wine glass of Scotch whiskey; 
shake up well with a shaker ; strain it into a good-sized 
bar glass; fill up the balance with Syphon Selters or 
Vichy water, and serve. 

The above drink must be drank as soon as prepared, 
so as not to lose the effect of it. The author respect- 
fully recommends the above drink as an excellent one 
for a morning beverage, which will give a good appe- 
tite and quiet the nerves. 

34. EGG NOGG. 

(Use a large bar glass.) 

1 fresh egg; 

Three-quarters table-spoon sugar; 

One-third glass full of fine ice; 

1 pony glass St. Croix rum; 

1 wine glass of brandy; 
fill the glass up with rich milk, shake the ingredients 
well together and strain it into a large bar glass; grate 
a little nutmeg on top, and serve. 

35. CHAMPAGNE SOUI^. 

(Use a large bar glass. j 

1 lump of loaf-sugar ; 

2 dashes of fresh lemon juice; 

place the saturated sugar into a fancy sour glass, fill 
up the glass slowly with wine and stir up well with a 
spoon, and ornament with grapes, fruit, and berries in 
season, and serve, 

36. MILK PUNCH. 

(Use a large glass.) 
Three-quarters table-spoon sugar; 
One-third glass of fine ice; 



I wine glass of brandy; 

One-half wine glass of St. Croix rum ; 
fill tlie glass w T ith rich milk, shake the ingredients to- 
gether, strain it into a fancy bar glass, grate a little 
nutmeg on top, and serve. 

37, CURACAO PUNCH. 

( Use a large bar glass. ) 
Three-quarters table-spoon of sugar; 
3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 

One-half wine glass of water, dissolved well with a 
spoon; 

Fill up the glass with fine shaved ice ; 

Three-quarters wine glass of brandy; 

1 pony glass of Curacao (red) ; 

One-half j>onv glass of Jamaica rum; 
stir up with a spoon; ornament with grapes, pineapple, 
oranges, and berries, and serve with a straw. 

38 : BRANDY PUNCH, 

(Use a large bar glass. ) 
Three-quarters table-spoon of sugar; 
A few T drops of raspberry syrup; 
3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 

One-half wine glass of water, dissolved well with a 
spoon; 

Fill up the glass with fine shaved ice ; 

1£ wine glass of old brandy; 
stir up well; flavor with a few drops of Jamaica rum, 
and ornament with grapes, oranges, pineapple, and 
berries, and serve with a straw. 

39. PORT WINE PUNCH. 

( Use a large bar glass. ) 
One-half table-spoon of sugar; 
One-half table-spoon of Orchard syrup; 
1 or 2 dashes of lemon juice; 



One-half wine glass of water, dissolved well with 
sugar and lemon: 

Fill up the glass with fine shaved ice ; 

1£ wine glass of Port wine : 
mix up well with a spoon, and ornament the top with 
grapes, oranges, pineapple, and berries, and serve with 
a straw. 

40. GENERAL HARRISON EGG NOGG. 

(Use a large bar glass. ) 

1 fresh egg; 

1 table-spoonful of sugar : 

3 or 4 small lumps of ice : 

Fill the glass with eider; 
shake well; strain it into a large bar glass; grate a little 
nutmeg on top, and serve. The above drink is a very 
pleasant one, and is popular throughout the southern 
part of the country. 

41. ST. CI^OIX RUM PUNCH. 

(Use a large bar glass. j 

1 table-spoonful of sugar: 

3 or 4 dashes of lime or lemon juice ; 

One-half wine glass of water, dissolved well; 

One-quarter pony glass of Jamaica rum ; 

1 wine glass lull of St. Croix rum: 

Fill up with fine shaved ice ; 
mix well with a spoon, ornament with fruit and berries 
in season, and serve with a straw. 

42. MEDFORD F(UM SOUT^. 

(Use a large bar gkt*&. 

One-half table-spoonful of sugar; 

3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice ; 

1 squirt of Syphon setters, dissolved well; 

1 wine glass full of Medford rum ; 

Fill the glass half full with ice : 
stir weU with a spoon ; strain into a sour glass, orna- 
mented with fruit, etc . and serve. 



— 28 — 



43. CHAMPAGNE COBBLER 

(Use d large bar glass.) 

Three-quarters of a table-spoon of sugar; 

One-quarter of a glass of water, dissolved well; 

1 or 2 pieces of orange; 

1 or 2 slices of orange; 

1£ wine glass of champagne; 

Fill the glass with ice ; 
stir well with a spoon; ornament the top with grapes, 
pineapple, berries, etc., and serve with a straw. 

44. ST. CHARLES PUNCH. 

( Use a large bar glass.) 
1 table-spoonful of sugar; 

3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice, dissolved with a little 
water; 

1 wine glass full of Port wine; 

1 pony glass of brandy; 
flavor with Curacao ; fill the glass with fine ice ; shake 
well; ornament the top with grapes, oranges, fruit, etc., 
in season, and serve with a straw. 

45. BRANDY SANGAREE. 

( Use a small bar glass. ) 

1 or 2 lumps of ice; 

One-half wine glass of water; 

One-half table- spoonful of sugar; 

1 glass of brandy; 
stir up well with a spoon; grate a little nutmeg on top, 
and serve; strain if desired. 

46. MINT JULEP. 

( Use a large bar glass.) 
1 table-spoonful of sugar; 
One-half wine glass of water; 

3 or 4 sprigs of fresh mint, dissolve well with sugar 



— 29 - 



and water, until the flavor of the mint is well 
extracted, then take out the mint; add 

1| wine glass fall of brandy; 

Fill the glass with fine shaved ice ; 
shake or stir well; then take out the sprigs of mint and 
insert them in the ice with the stem downward, so that 
the leaves will be above, in the shape of a bouquet; 
ornament with berries, pineapple and orange on top in 
a tasty manner ; dash with Jamaica rum, and sprinkle 
with a little sugar on top; serve with a straw. 

47. FANCY WHISKEY SMASH. 

( Use a large bar glass, ) 

One-half table -spoonful of sugar; 

One-half glass of water; 

3 or 4 sprigs of mint, dissolved well; 

Fill the glass full of tine shaved ice; 

1 wine glass of whiskey ; 
stir well with a spoon; strain it into a fancy sour glass, 
ornamented with fruit and berries, and serve. 

48. OLD STYLE WHISKEY SMASH. 

( Use a whiskey glass. j 
One-half table-spoonful of sugar; 
One-half wine glass water; 
3 or 4 sprigs of mint, dissolved well; 
Fill the glass with small pieces of ice ; 
1 wine glass of whiskey; 
Put in fruit in season, mix well, and serve. 

49. COLD WHISKEY SLING. 

(Use a small bar glass.) 
1 tea-spoon of sugar; 

One-half wine glass of water, dissolved well; 
1 or 2 small lumps of ice ; 
1 wine glass full of whiskey; 
mix well: grate a little nutmeg on top, and serve. 



— BO — 



50. GIN COCKTAIL. 

f Use a large bar glass, j 

Fill up with ice; 

2 or 3 dashes of gum syrup; 

1 or 2 clashes of bitters (Angostura); 

1 clash either of Curacao or absinthe; 

1 wine glass full of Holland gin; 
stir up well; strain into a fancy cocktail glass; squeeze 
a piece of lemon peel on top, and serve. 

In regard to Curacao or absinthe in the above drink, 
that one is taken which the customer may desire. 



51. ABSINTHE COCKTAIL. 

f Use a larje bar glass. ) 

Till up with ice; 

3 or 4 dashes of gum syrup; 

1 dash of bitters (Angostura); 

1 dash of anisette; 

One-quarter wine glass of water; 

Three-quarters wine glass of absinthe; 
shake it well; strain it into a fancy cocktail glass; 
squeeze a lemon j^eel on top, and serve. 

52. MISSISSIPPI PUNCH. 

( Use a large bar glass. ) 

1 table-spoon of sugar: 
One-half wine glass of water : 

2 dashes of lemon juice, dissolved well; 
One-half wine glass of Jamaica rum ; 
One-half wine glass of Bourbon whiskey ; 
1 wine glass of brandy; 

till the glass with shaved ice; shake the ingredients 
well; ornament in a tasty manner with fruits and ber- 
ries in season, and serve with a straw. 



— 31 — 



53. HOT WHISKEY. 

^ Use a ftot wkikMy glass. J 

The author of this work calls attention to this rule., 
that is always proper to leave the spoon in hot drinks 
remain in the glass, and at all times have a separate 
glass rilled with fine ice, which must be placed in a 
convenient position, so that if the customer rinds his 
drink too hot for him, he can help himself to the above 
ice; and the bartender should at all times handle the 
sugar with a jDair of tongues. 1 or 2 lumps of loaf- 
sugar with a little hot water to dissolve the sugar well; 
1 wine glass full of Scotch whiskey; nil the glass full 
with hot water; then mix well; squeeze and throw the 
lemon peel on top; grate a little nutmeg on top, and 
serve. 

It is always customary to use the Scotch whiskey in 
preparing the above drink, unless the customer desires 
any other. 



54. HOW TO MIX TOM AND JERRY. 

(Use a punch bowl for the mixture.) 

Use eggs according to quantity. Before using eggs, 
be careful and have them fresh and cold; go to work 
and take two bowls, break up your eggs very carefully, 
without mixing the yolks with the whites together, but 
have the whites in a separate bowl, take an egg beater 
and beat the white of the egg in such a manner, that 
it becomes to a stiff froth; add 1£ table-spoon of sugar 
to each egg, and mix this thoroughly together, and 
then beat the yolks of the eggs, until they are as thin 
as water, mix the yolks of the eggs with the whites and 
sugar together, until the mixture contains the con- 
sistence of a light batter, and it is always necessary to 
stir the mixtures up every little while to prevent the 
eggs from separating. 



55. HOW TO DEAL OUT TOM AND JEI^RY. 

(Take either a Tom and Jerry mug or bar glass. } 
2 table-spoons of the above mixture; 
1 wine glass of brandy; 

1 pony glass of Jamaica rum: 

till the mug or glass up with hot water or hot milk, and 
stir up well with a spoon, then }30or i n the mixture 
from one mug to the other, three or four times, until 
the above ingredients are thoroughly mixed, grate a 
little nutmeg on top and serve. 

56. TOM AND JEP^Y -cold). 

(Use a Tom and Jerry mug or bar gla.<.<. \ 
This drink is prepared on the same principle as Hot 
Tom and Jerry, with the exception of using cold water 
or cold milk. 

57. KNICKERBOCKER. 

(Use a large bar glass.) 

2 table-spoonsful of raspberry syrup; 
2 dashes of lemon juice ; 

1 slice of pineapple; 
1 slice of orange; 

1 wine glass full of St. Croix rum; 

One-half glass of Curacao; 
then fill the glass with fine shaved ice, stir or shake 
well, and dress with fruit in season; serve with a straw. 

58. JOHN COLLINS. 

(Use an extra large bar glass.) 

1 table-spoonful of sugar; 

5 to 6 dashes of lemon juice; 

1 wine glass of Holland gin ; 

4 or 5 small lumps of ice ; 
open a bottle of plain soda water, pour this into the 
ingredients, mix up well, remove the ice. and serve. 



Careful attention must be paid when mixing the soda 
water with the above, not to let the foam of it spread 
over the glass. 

59. WHISKEY TODDY, 

('Use a whiskey gla<s. ) 

One-half tea-spoon of sugar, little water to dissolve; 

1 or 2 pieces of ice; 

1 wine glass of whiskey; 
mix well, and serve. 

The most proper w r ay for the bartender is to dissolve 
the sugar into the water only, and leave the spoon in 
the glass, hand out the bottle of whiskey to the cus- 
stomer to help himself. 

60. HOT SCOTCH WHISKEY SLING. 

(Use a hot water glass. ) 

One-half jnece of lump sugar; 

Three-quarters full of hot water; 

1 piece of lemon peel; 

1 wine glass of Scotch whiskey; 
stir up well with a spoon, grate a little nutmeg on top, 
and serve. 

61. WHITE LION. 

(Use a large bar glass.) 

1 table-spoon of sugar; 

2 or 3 dashes of lime or lemon juice, dissolved well 

with a little water ; 

One-half pony glass of raspberry syrup ; 

One-quarter pony glass of Curacao; 

Fill up the glass with shaved ice; 

1 wine glass of St. Croix rum; 
stir up well with a spoon; ornament with fruits and 
berries in season; serve with a straw. 



— 34 — 



62. LEMONADE. 

( Use a large bar glass, j 
table-spoon of sugar; 
5 to 6 dashes lemon juice; 
Three-quarters filled with shaved ice; 
fill up the balance with water; shake well; dress with 
fruit, and serve with a straw. 

In making this drink to taste pleasant, it must be at 
all times good and strong; take therefore plenty of 
lemon juice and sugar. 

63. HOT SPICED I^UM. 

( Take a hot water glass.) 
1 or 2 lumps of loaf sugar; 

One-half tea-spoonful of mixed allspice, dissolve with 
a little hot water; 

1 wine glass of Jamaica rum; 
fill up the balance of the glass with hot water, mix 
well and grate a little nutmeg on the top, and serve. 

If the customer requires a small portion of butter in 
the above drink, you are requested to use only that 
which is perfectly fresh, as butter is very desirable in 
cases of sore throats and colds. 

64. SELTERS LEMONADE. 

(Use a large bar glass.) 

1^ table-spoon of sugar; 

4 to 6 dashes of lemon juice; 

4 or 5 small lumps of broken ice; 
then fill up the glass with Syphon Selters water, stir up 
well with a spoon, and serve. 

If customers desire to have the imported Selters 
water, use that instead of the Syphon Selters water. 

65. MULLET CLARET. 

(Use a large bar glass or mug.) 
In making the above drink, careful attention must be 
paid in having all the ingredients well mixed. 



3 or 4 pieces of lump sugar ; 
1 or 2 dashes of lemon juice; 

1 tea-spoon of mixed spice; 
One-quarter tea-spoon cloves; 
One-quarter tea-spoon ground cinnamon; 

2 wine glasses of old claret; 

put all the above ingredients in a dish, and place 
them over a fire until it boils, for one or two minutes, 
stirring it all the time, then j>our it into a large hot 
water glass, strain it, grate a little nutmeg on top, 
and serve. 

This is a favorite drink, especially with the ladies in 
the European countries. 

66. SODA COCKTAIL. 

( Use a large bar glass. ) 

4 or 5 small lumps of broken ice ; 

5 or 6 dashes of bitters, either Angostura orBoker's; 
1 or 2 slices of orange; 

1 tea-spoon of sugar; 
fill up the glass with a bottle of lemon soda water, stir 
up well with a spoon, and serve. 

In mixing this drink attention must be paid not to 
let the foam of the soda spread over the glass. 

67. POUSSE CAFE. 

(Use a sherry icine glass. ) 

In mixing the above drink, which is a beverage drank 
by the French as a great favorite, and also has become a 
favorite in this country, it must be mixed very carefully, 
as there are several liquors required in the preparation 
of this drink, and should be made in a manner that 
each jDortion will be separated from each other, there- 
fore, I would suggest, that there would be used a 
sherry wine glass for pouring in the liquors, instead of 
a tea-spoon, it has a better appearance and takes less 
time; mix as follows: 

One-sixth glass of raspberry syrup ; 

One-sixth glass of Marachino; 



— 36 — 



One-sixth glass of Vanilla; 
One-sixth glass of Curacao (red); 
One-sixth glass of Chartreuse (yellow) ; 
One-sixth glass of brandy; 
i according to the above ingredients you will hate your 
glass filled. 

68. POUSSE L'AMOUI^. 

I Use a sherry wine glass.) 

This delicious French drink is somewhat similar to 
the Pousse Cafe, and also has to be made very carefully. 
Mix as follows: 

One-quarter sherry glass Marachino, drop in ; 

1 yolk of a fresh cold egg; 

One-quarter of a glass of Vanilla; 

One-quarter of a glass of Cognac. 

Proper attention must be paid that the yolk of the 
egg does not run into the liquor. 

69. RHINE WINE COBBLER. 

( Use a large bar glass. ) 
1\ table-spoon of sugar ; 

One-half wine glass of water, dissolved well with a 
spoon; 

wine glass of Rhine wine; 
till the glass up with shaved ice; stir up well with a 
spoon ; ornament with grapes, orange, pineapple, straw- 
berries, in season; serve with a straw. 

70. JERSEY COCKTAIL. 

(Use a large bar glass.) 

One-half table-spoon of sugar; 

3 or 4 lumps of broken ice ; 

3 or 4 dashes of bitters (Angostura) ; 

1 wine glass full of good cider; 
mix well and strain it into a cocktail glass, and twist a 
piece of lemon peel on top. This is a favorite drink 
with Jersey people. 



71. SILVER FIZZ. 



( Use a large bar glass. ) 

One-half table-sjDOon of sugar; 

2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice; 

1 wine glass of Old Tom gin, dissolved well; 

1 egg (the white only) ; 

Three-quarters glass filled with fine shaved ice; 
shake up well with a shaker, strain it into a good sized 
fizz glass, fill up the glass with Syphon Selters or Vichy 
water, mix well, and serve. 

72. VANILLA PUNCH. 

(Use a large bar glass. j 

1 table-spoon of sugar; 

2 or 3 dashes of lime or lemon juice; 

2 or 3 dashes of Curacao, dissolved well with a little 
water; 

Fill the glass up with shaved ice; 

1 wine glass of brandy; 

1 pony glass of Vanilla ; 
mix well with a spoon; ornament with grapes, oranges, 
pineapple, and berries in a tasty manner, and serve 
with a straw. 

73. HOT MILK PUNCH. 

( Use a large bar glass. ) 

1 table-spoon of sugar; 

One-quarter wine glass of St. Croix rum; 

Three-quarters wine glass of brandy, if desired use 
Jamaica rum instead of the above ; 

Fill the glass with boiling hot milk; 
stir up well with a spoon, grate a little nutmeg on top, 
and serve. 

In mixing the above drink, you never must use the 
shaker. 



— 38 — 



74, BALTIMORE EGG NOGG. 

( Use a large bar glass. ) 
1 yolk of an egg; 

Three-quarters table-spoon of sugar; 

Add a little nutmeg and cinnamon to it, and beat it 

up to a cream; 
One-half pony glass of brandy; 
3 or 4 lumps of ice; 

One-quarter pony glass of Jamaica rani; 

1 pony glass Madeira wine; 

fill the glass with milk, shake -well, strain it into a large 
bar glass, grate a little nutmeg on top, and serve. 

75. SHE^Y COBBLER. 

(Use a large bar glass. j 
Three-quarter table-spoon of sugar; 
One-half -wine glass of water, dissolved well with a 
spoon; 

fill the glass up with fine crystal ice; then fill the glass wp 
with sherry wine ; stir well with a spoon, and ornament 
with grapes, oranges, pineapple, berries, and serve with 
a straw. 

76. FANCY BRANDY COCKTAIL. 

(Use a large bar glass.) 
Three-quarters glass filled with shaved ice; 

2 or 3 dashes of gum syrup; 

dashes of Angostura bitters; 

l\ dashes of Curacao; 

1 glass of brandy (French); 
stir well with a spoon, strain it into a fancy cocktail 
glass and squirt a little of Champagne into it, twist a 
piece of lemon peel on top, and serve. 

Attention will be paid to this fact, that Champagne 
will be used only in those cases where it is kept on 
draft. The above Champagne, if used as directed, will 
make a very pleasant drink; it is a universal favorite in 
the western part of the country. 



77 CALIFORNIAN SHERRY WINE 
COBBLER. 

(Use a large bar glass.) 

One-lialf table-spoon of >sugar; 

1 pony glass of pineapple syrup, dissolved well with 

a little water; 
Fill the glass with shaved ice; 

wine glass of California sherry wine; 
stir up well with a sjdoou; ornament the top in a fancy 
manner with grapes, oranges, pineapple, berries, and 
top it off with a little old port wine, and serve with a 
straw. 

78. GIN FIZZ. 

(Use a large bar gla*s.j 

One-half table-spoon of sugar; 

3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 
One-half glass filled with shaved ice; 
1 wine glass of Old Tom gin; 

stir up well with a spoon, strain it into a large sized bar 
glass, fill up the balance with Yichy or Selters water, 
mix up well, and serve. 

It must be properly attended to, that all fizz drinks 
must be drank as soon as handed out, or the natural 
taste of the same is lost, and they have no effect on the 
customer. 

79. VERMOUTH COCKTAIL. 

(Use a large bar glass. ) 

Three-quarters glass of shaved ice; 

4 to 5 dashes of gum; 

1 or 2 dashes of orange bitters; 

2 dashes of Maraschino; 

1 wine glass of vermouth; 
stir up well with a spoon, strain it into a cocktail glass, 
twist a piece of lemon peel on top, and serve. 



— 40 — 



80. KIRSCHWASSEF^ PUNCH. 

( Use a large bar glass. ) 
One-half table-s}:>ooii of sugar; 
1 or 2 clashes of lime or lemon juice; 
3 or 4 dashes of Chartreuse (yellow), dissolve well 

with a little water; 
Three-quarters glass of ice; 
1 wine glass of Kirschwasser ; 
mix well with a spoon, and ornament with fruit, berries, 
etc., in season, and serve with a straw. 

81. BRANDY FIZZ. 

('Use a large bar glass. ) 

One-half table-spoon of sugar; 

3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 

Three-quarters of a glass of fine ice ; 

1 wine glass of brandy ; 
mix up well with a spoon, strain it into a fizz or sour 
glass, fill the glass up with Yichy or Selters water, and 
serve. 

82. WHISKEY JULEP. 

( Use a large bar glass. ) 
Three-quarters table-spoon of sugar ; 
One-half wine glass of water; 

3 or 4 sprigs of fresh mint, dissolved well until all 
the essence of the mint is extracted ; 

Fill up the glass with fine shaved ice ; 

1 wine glass of whiskey; 
stir up well with a spoon and ornament this drink with 
mint, oranges, pineapple, and berries, in a tasty man- 
ner; sprinkle a little sugar on top of it ; dash with Ja- 
maica rum, and serve. 

83. WHISKEY CRUSTA. 

(Use a large bar glass.) 
Take a nice clean lemon, the same size as your wine 
glass, cut off both ends and peel it the same as you 



— m — 

would an apple, put the lemon peel in the wine glass, 
so that it will cover the entire inside of the glass, then 
dip the edge of the glass and lemon peel in pulverized 
sugar. The mixture is as follows: 

One-half pony glass orchard syrup; 

1 or 2 dashes of hitters (Angostura ) ; 

1 dash of lemon juice; 

2 clashes of Marachino; 
One-ha 1 ! glass of line shaved ice; 
Three-quarters wine glass full of whiskey; 

mix well with a spoon, strain it into the wine glass con- 
taining the lemon j^eel, ornament it with a little fruit, 
and serve. 

84. FANCY BRANDY SMASH. 

( Use a large bar glass. ) 
One-half table-spoon of sugar; 
One-half wine glass of water; 

3 or 4 sprigs of fresh mint, dissolved well; 
One-half glass of shaved ice; 

1 wine glass of brandy; 

stir up well with a spoon, strain it into a fancy bar 
glass, and ornament it with a little fruit in season, and 
serve. 

85. JAMAICA P\UM SOUF(. 

( Use a large bar glass. > 
One-half table-spoonful of sugar; 

2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice; 

1 squirt of Syj^hon Selters, dissolved well; 

Three-quarters glass rilled with fine shaved ice ; 

1 wine glass Jamaica rum; 
stir well with a spoon, and strain it into a sour glass, 
ornament with fruit, and serve. 

86. SHERRY FLIP. 

( Use a large bar glass.) 

1 fresh egg; 

One-half table-spoon of sugar; 



— ±2 — 



One-half glass filled with shaved ice ; 
wine glass sherry wine; 
shake it well, until it is thoroughly mixed; strain it 
into a fancy bar glass; grate a little nutmeg on top. 
and serve. 

This is a very delicious drink and gives great 
strength to delicate people. 

87, WHISKEY FIX, 

(Use a large bar glass. j 
One-half table-spoon of sugar; 

2 or 3 dashes of lime or lemon juice, dissolve well 
with a little water ; 

One-half pony glass pineapple syrup ; 

Three-quarters glass shaved ice; 

1 wine glass whiskey ; 
stir up well with a spoon, and ornament with grapes, 
oranges, pineapple, and berries: serve with a straw. 

88. PORT WINE SANGAREE. 

(Use a small bar glass.) 
1 tea-sjDoon of sugar, dissolve well with a little Avater; 
1 or 2 lumps of ice; 

1 wine glass of Port wine ; 

stir up with a spoon; remove the piece of ice, if re- 
quired; grate a little nutmeg on top. and serve. 

89. WHISKEY COCKTAIL. 

(Use a large glass.) 
Three-quarters glass full of fine shaved ice; 

2 or 3 dashes of gum syrup ; 

1£ or 2 dashes of bitters (Angostura or Boker's); 

1 or 2 dashes of Curacao; 

1 wine glass of whiskey; 
stir up well with a spoon and strain it into a cocktail 
glass, and squeeze a piece of lemon peel on top, and 
serve. 



— 43 — 



90. WHISKEY FIZZ. 

(Use a large bar glass. ) 
One-half table-spoon of sugar; 

2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice, dissolve with squirt of 

Sellers water; 
Fill the glass up with ice; 

1 wine glass full of whiskey; 

stir up well, strain it into a good sized fizz glass, fill 
the balance up with Selters or Vichy water, and serve. 

91. lyOMAN PUNCH. 

(Use a large bar glass.) 
One-half table-spoonful of sugar; 
One-half pony glass of raspberry syrup; 

2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice, dissolve with a little 

water: 

Fill the glass up with fine shaved ice : 

One-quarter pony glass of Curacao : 

One-half wine glass of brandy: 

One-half pony glass of Jamaica rum ; 
stir up well with a spoon, ornament with grapes, 
oranges, pineapple, berries, etc., and serve with a straw. 

92. SHERRY WINE PUNCH, 

( Use a large bar glass.) 
One-half wine glass of orchard syrup ; 

1 or 2 dashes of lemon juice; 
Fill the glass with fine shaved ice ; 

wine glass of Sherry wine; 
stir up well with a spoon; ornament with grapes, 
oranges, pineaple, and berries; top it off with a little 
claret wine, and serve with a straw. 

93. APPLE JACK SOUF(. 

(Use a large bar glass. j 
One-half table-spoon of sugar; 

2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice: 



— u — 



1 squirt of Syphon Selters water, dissolved well; 
Three-quarters of a glass of fine shaved ice; 

1 wine glass of old eider brandy or what they call 

apple jack; 

stir up with a spoon, strain it into a sour glass, and 
ornament it with a little fruit, and serve. 

94. GIN SMASH. 

( Use a large bar glass. ) 
One-half table-spoon of sugar; 

2 or 8 sprigs of fresh mint, dissolved well with a little 

water, until the essence of the mint is extracted; 
One-half glass of shaved ice ; 

1 wine glass of Holland gin; 

stir up well with a spoon, strain it into a sour glass, 
ornament with a little fruit, and serve. 

95. MEDFORD f^UM PUNCH. 

(Use a large bar glasx. ) 

Three-quarter table-spoon of sugar ; 

2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice, dissolved well with a 

little water; 

Fill up the glass with fine shaved ice ; 

1J wine glass of Medford rum; 
flavor with a few drops of Jamaica rum, stir up well, 
and dress the toj) off with fruits and berries, in season, 
and serve with a straw. 

96. HOT IxUM. 

(Use a liot water glass.) 

1 or 2 lumps of loaf sugar, dissolved with a little hot 
water; 

1 wine glass full of Jamaica rum; 
fill the balance up with hot water, stir up well with a 
spoon, graite a little nutmeg on top, and serve. 



97. ORANGE LEMONADE. 

( Use a large bar glass,) 
1 table-spoon of sugar; 

1 clash of lemon juice, squeeze out the juice of one 
orange ; 

Three-quarters glass filled with fine shaved ice; 
fill the balance with water, shake well, and dress the 
top with fruits and berries in season, and serve with a 
straw. 

98. STONE FENCE. 

( Use a whiskey glass, j 

1 wine glass full of whiskey : 

2 or 3 lumps of broken ice ; 

fill up the glass with cider, stir up well with a sj^oon, 
and serve. 

99. PORT WINE PUNCH. 

{Use a large bar glass.) 
One-half table-spoon of sugar; 
1 or 2 dashes of lemon juice ; 

One-half orange squeezed into it, dissolved well with 
a little water : 

Fill up the glass with fine shaved ice ; 

1£ wine glass full of Port wine; 
mix well with a spoon, and ornament with grapes, 
fruits and berries in season, and serve with a straw. 

100. GIN TODDY. 

( Use a whiskey glass, ) 

One-half tea-spoon of sugar, dissolved well with a 
little water; 

1 or 2 lumps of broken ice; 

1 wine glass of Holland gin; 
stir up well, and serve. 

The proper way in serving the above drink is to dis- 
solve the sugar with a little water, put the spoon and 
ice in the glass, and hand out the bottle of liquor to 
the customer, to help himself. 



— 46 — 



101. HOT IRISH PUNCH. 

(Use a hot water glass.) 
1 or 2 kmrps of loaf sugar; 

1 squirt of lemon juice, dissolved in a little hot water; 

1 wine glass of Irish whiskey: 
till up the balance with hot water, stir up well, put a 
slice of lemon into it. grate a little nutmeg on top, and 
serve. 

102. WINE LEMONADE. 

(Use a large bar glass.) 
3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 
1 table-sjDOon of sugar; 
Fill up the glass with fine ice ; 

1 wine glass full of wine, either Sherry, Claret or 
Port wine, whichever may be required; 
fill up the balance with water, shake well, and dress the 
top with fruits and berries; serve with a straw. 

103. SODA LEMONADE. 

f Use a large bar glass. ) 
1 table-spoon of sugar; 
3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 
3 or -4 small lumps of broken ice; 

1 bottle of plain soda water; 

stir up well with a spoon, remove the ice arid serve. 

Proper attention must be paid in opering the bottle 
of soda, not to let the soda squirt over the customer, 
but to open the same beneath the counter. 

104. OLD TOM GIN COCKTAIL, 

(Use a large bar glass.) 
Fill the glass with fine shaved ice ; 

2 or 3 dashes of gum syrup; 

1 or 2 dashes of bitters (Angostura); 

1 or 2 dashes of Curacao or Absinthe, if required: 

1 wine glass of Old Tom gin; 
stir up well with a spoon, strain it into a cocktail glass, 
twist a piece oi lemon peel on top, and serve. 



— 47 — 



105. HOT ARRAC PUNCH. 

(Use a hot water glass.) 
1 or 2 pieces of lump sugar, dissolved with a little 
water; 

3 or 4 drops of lemon juice : 

Three-quarters of a wine glass of arrac (Batavia ) ; 
fill the glass up with hot water, stir up well with a 
spoon, grate a little nutmeg on top, and serve. 

106. PHILADELPHIA BOATING PUNCH. 

(Use a large bar glass. j 

1 table-spoon of sugar; 

1 or 2 dashes of lemon juice; 

1 or 2 dashes of lime juice, dissolved well with a little 
water; 

Fill up the glass with line ice; 

1 wine glass of St. Croix rum ; 

1 pony glass of old brandy ; 
stir up well with a spoon, dress the top with fruits and 
berries in season, and serve with a straw. 

107. TIP TOP PUNCH. 

f Use a large bar glass.) 
3 or 4 lumps of broken ice ; 
1 pony glass full of brandy; 
1 piece of loaf sugar; 
1 or 2 slices of orange; 

1 or 2 slices of pineapjDle; 

2 or 3 drops of lemon juice; 

fill up the balance with champagne, mix well with a 
spoon, dress up the tojD with fruits and berries in season, 
and serve with a straw. 

108. BRANDY CRUSTA. 

(Use a large bar glass.) 
Take a nice, clean lemon of the same size as your 
wine glass, cut off both ends of it, and peel it the same 



— 48 — 



as you would an apple, jmt the lemon peel in the 
wine glass, so that it will cover the entire inside of the 
glass, and dip the edge of the glass and lemon peel in 
pulverized sugar, take your mixing glass and mix as 
follows : 

3 or 4 dashes of orchard syrup; 

1 or 2 dashes of Angostura bitters; 

4 or 5 drops of lemon juice; 

2 dashes of Marachino; 
Three-quarters filled with fine ice; 
1 wine glass of brandy; 

stir up well with a spoon, strain it into the glass, dress 
the top with a little fruit, and serve. 

109. GIN JULEP. 

( Use a large bar glass. ) 

Three-quarters of a table-spoon of sugar; 

3 or 4 sprigs of fresh mint; 

One-half wine glass full of water, dissolved well, until 
the essence of the mint is thoroughly extracted, 
fill up with fine ice; 
1^ wine glass of Holland gin ; 
stir up well with a spoon, and ornament it the same as 
you would a Mint Julep, and serve. 

110. PORTER SANGAREE. 

( Use a large bar glass. J 
One-half table-spoon of sugar; 

1 wine glass of water, dissolved well with the sugar; 

3 or 4 small lumps of broken ice ; 
fill the balance of the glass with Porter, mix well with 
a spoon, remove the ice, grate a little nutmeg on top, 
and serve. 

Attention must be paid, so that the foam of the 
Porter does not spread over the glass. 



— 4<J — 



111 BRANDY FIX. 

(Use a large bar glass. ) 
One-half table-spoon of sugar; 

2 or 3 dashes of lime or lemon juice: 

One-half pony glass of pineapple syrup, dissolved 
well with a little water : 

Fill up the glass with shaved ice; 

1 wine glass full of brandy: 
stir up well with a spoon, and ornament the top with 
grapes, fruit, and berries, in season, and serve with a 
straw. 

112. BRANDY FLIP. 

(Use a large, bar glass,) 

1 fresh egg: 

Three-quarters table-spoon of sugar: 

One-half glass full of shaved ice; 

1 wine glass full of brandy: 
shake the above ingredients with a shaker, strain it into 
a flip or other fancy bar glass, and grate a little nutmeg* 
on top, and serve. 

113. CALIFORNIA WINE COBBLER. 

(Use a large bar glass,) 
Three-quarters table-spoon of sugar, the juice of one 

orange, dissolved well with a little water; 
Fill up the glass with fine shaved ice; 
1^ wine glass of California wine; 
stir up well with a sjDoon; ornament with grapes, fruit, 
and berries, in season, and top it off with a little Port 
wine, and serve with a straw. 

114. WHISKEY SOUP(. 

( Use a large bar glass. , 
One-half table-spoon of sugar; 

3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 

1 squirt of Syphon Setters water, and dissolve well 
the sugar and lemon with a spoon : 



— 50 — 



Fill the glass with, ice; 

1 wine glass of whiskey; 

stir up well, strain it into a sour glass; place your fruit 
into it, and serve. 

115. ST. CROIX FIX. 

(Use a large lav glass J 
One-half table-spoon of sugar; 

J. o " 

2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice; 
One-half pony glass of pineapple syrup; 
One-half wine glass of water, dissolved well with a 

spoon; 

Fill up the glass with fine ice; 

1 wine glass of St. Croix rum; 
stir up well, ornament the top with fruit and berries in 
season, and serve with a straw, 

116. SHEf^Y WINE SANGAREE. 

(Use a whiskey glass.) 

1 tea-spoon of sugar, dissolved well with water ; 
1 or 2 lunrps of broken ice ; 

1 wine glass of Sherry wine ; 

stir up well with a spoon, remove the ice, grate a little 
nutmeg on top, and' serve. 

117. BRANDY SOUI^. 

( Use a large bar glass.) 

One-half table-spoon of sugar; 

2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice; 

1 squirt of Syphon Selters w r ater, dissolve w r ell the 
sugar and lemon with a spoon ; 

Fill up the glass with ice ; 

1 wine glass of brandy; 
stir up well, place the fruit into the sour glass, and 
strain the ingredients into it, and serve. 



118. PORT WINE FLIP. 

(Use a large bar glass.) 

1 fresh egg; 

One-half table-spoon of sugar; 

Three-quarters glass of shaved ice ; 

1 wine glass of Port wine ; 
shake up well with a skaker, strain it into a wine glass, 
grate a little nutmeg on top, and serve. 

119. STONE WALL. 

( Use a large bar glass.) 

One-quarter table-spoon of sugar; 

3 or 4 lumps of ice ; 

1 wine glass of whiskey ; 

1 bottle of plain soda water; 
stir up w-ell with a spoon, remove the ice, and serve. 

This is a very cooling drink, and most generally 
called for in warm season. 

120. ITALIAN WINE LEMONADE. 

( Use a large bar glass. ) 

One-half wine gla33 of raspberry syrup; 

One-quarter wine glass of orchard syrup; 

3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 

Three-quarters glass filled with shaved ice ; 

1 wine glass either of Port or Claret wine; 
fill up the balance with water; mix up well, and orna- 
ment the top with grapes, fruit, and berries, in season, 
and serve with a straw. 

The above is a favorite drink for the ladies especially 
in warm climates. 

121. TOM COLLINS. 

( Use an extra large bar glass. ) 
Three-quarters table-spoon of sugar; 
3 or 4 dashes of lime or lemon juice; 
3 or 4 pieces of broken ice; 



1 wine glass full of Old Tom gin; 

1 bottle of plain soda water; 
mix up well with a spoon, remove the ice, and serve. 

Attention must be paid not to let the foam of the 
soda water spread over the glass, 

122. HOT LOCOMOTIVE. 

i Use a large bar glass. ) 
1 yolk of a raw egg; 
One-half table-spoon of sugar ; 

1 pony glass full of honey, dissolve this well with a 
spoon; 

One-half pony glass of Curacao ; 

1J wine glass of Burgundy or Claret ; 
put all the ingredients into a dish and put over a tire, 
until it is boiled up, then pour it into from one mug to 
each other for three or four different times, put a slice 
of lemon into it, sprinkle with a little cinnamon, and 
serve. 

123. KNICKERBEIN. 

{'Use a sherry wine glass./ 
Particular attention must be paid to the above drink 
as well, as to the Pousse Cafe, to prevent the liquors 
from running into each other, and that the yolk of the 
egg, as well as the different liquors are separate from 
each other; mix as follows: 

One-third sherry wine glass Vanilla* 
1 fresh egg (the yolk only ) ; cover the egg with Ben- 
edictine: 

One-third sherry wine glass Krinimel; 

1 or 2 drops bitters (Angostura); and serve. 

124. BRANDY SLING. 

fTJse a hot water glass.) 

1 lump of sugar, dissolved well with a little hot water : 

1 wine glass of brandy; 
rill up with hot water, stir up with a spoon, grate a 
little nutmeg on top, and serve. 



125. HOT APPLE TODDY. 

( Use a hot apple toddy glass. ) 

In making the above drink, an extra large glass of 
the above description must be used ; mix as follows : 
One-half medium-sized well roasted apple ; 
One-half table-spoon of sugar, dissolve well with a 
little hot water; 

1 wine glass full of old apple jack; 

till up the balance with hot water, and mix well with a 
spoon, grate a little nutmeg on top, and serve with a 
bar spoon. 

If the customer should desire the above drink 
strained, you must use a fine strainer, such as used for 
milk punches ; also attention must be j)aid, that wl^en 
you roast your ap|3les, they are not done too much, but 
are done in a nice juicy manner, and are only of the 
best quality. 

126. MEDFORD I(UM SMASH. 

f Use a large bar glass. ) 

One-half table-spoon of sugar; 
One-half wine glass of water; 

2 or 3 sprigs of mint; dissolve well the sugar with 

the mint, so that the essence of the same is well 
extracted; 
One-half glass of fine ice, 
1 wiue glass of old Medford rum; 
mix well up, place the fruit into a sour glass, and strain 
the above ingredients into it, and serve. 

127. BRANDY SHAMPERELLE, 

( Use a sherry nine glass, j 

One-quarter wine glass of Curacao (red) ; 
One-quarter wine glass of Chartreuse (yellow); 
One-quarter wine glass of Anisette ; 



— 54 — 



One-quarter wine glass of Kirschwasser or Brandy, 

which one the customer desires, and serve. 
Attention must be paid to prevent different liquors 
from running into each other. 

128. SANTINAS POUSSE CAFE. 

( Use a sherry wine glass. ) 

One-third wine glass of Marachino; 

One-third glass of Curacao (red) ; 

One-third wine glass of French brandy ; and serve. 

This drink is generally indulged in after partaking of 
a cup of black coffee, and attention must be paid to 
prevent the different liquors from running into each 
other. 

129. HOT GIN SLING. 

( Use a hot water glass.) 

One-half piece of loaf sugar, dissolved in a little hot 
water; 

1 wine glass of Holland gin; 
fill up the balance with hot water, stir with a spoon, 
grate a little nutmeg on top, and serve. 

130. PORT WINE COBBLER. 

(Use a large bar glass.) 
One-half table-spoon of sugar; 
1 pony glass of orchard syrup; 

One-half wine glass of water, dissolved well with a 
spoon; 

Fill the glass with fine ice ; 
wine glass of Port wine; 
mix up well, and ornament with grapes, fruit, and ber- 
ries on top, in season, and serve. 

131. SAUTHERN COBBLER. 

( Use a large bar glass. ) 
One-half table-spoon of sugar; 
One-half wine glass orchard syrup; 



One-quarter wine glass water; dissolved well with a 
spoon; 

Fill the glass up with fine shaved ice ; 

1£ wine glass of Sauthern wine ; 
stir up well, and ornament with grapes, oranges, pine- 
apple, berries, etc., and serve with a straw. 

132, GIN SOUI^. 

(Use a small bar glass.) 
One-half table-spoonful of sugar; 
3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 

1 squirt of Syphon Selters water, dissolve well the 
sugar and lemon with a spoon; 

Three-quarters filled with fine shaved ice; 

1 wine glass of Holland gin; 
mix well, strain it into a sour glass, and dress with a 
little fruit in season, and serve. 

133. ALE SANGAREE, 

(Use a large ale glass.) 
1 tea-spoon of sugar; 

One-half wine glass of water, dissolved well with a 
spoon; 

fill up the balance with ale, grate a little nutmeg on top, 
and serve. 

It is customary to ask the customer if he desires old, 
new, or mixed ale; if he desires new ale, you must 
prevent the foam from running over the glass; also 
attention must be paid in regard to the temperature of 
the ale, not to have it too cold or too warm. 

134. GIN FIX. 

(Use a large bar glass.) 
One-half table-sj^oon of sugar; 
3 or 4 dashes of lime or lemon juice ; 
One-half pony glass of pineapple syrup, dissolved 
well with a little water: 



Fill up the glass with fine shaved ice ; 

1 wine glass Holland gin; 
stir up well with a spoon, ornament the top with fruit 
and berries in season, and serve with a straw. 



135. SHERRY WINE EGG NOGG. 

( Use a large bar glass. J 

1 fresh egg; 

One-half table-spoon of sugar; 

Fill up the glass with fine ice; 

1 pony glass brandy; 

1 wine glass of Sherry wine; 
shake the above ingredients well, until they are thor- 
oughly mixed together; strain it into a fancy bar glass, 
large enough to hold all the mixture; grate a little nut- 
meg on top, and serve. 

136. ST. CROIX CRUSTA. 

( Use a large bar glass.) 

Take a nice lemon, the same size as your wine glass, 
cut off' both ends, and -peel it the same as you would 
an apple, put the lemon peel into the glass, so that it 
will cover the entire inside of the glass, dip the edge 
of the glass and the lemon peel in pulverized sugar, 
and mix as follows : 

3 or 4 dashes orchard syrup; 

1 dash of bitters (Angostura); 

One-half glass of fine ice; 

1 small dash of lemon juice; 

2 dashes of Marachino; 

1 glass of St. Croix rum; 
mix well with a spoon and strain into a wine glass, and 
dress with small jneces of pineaj^ple and strawberries, 
and serve. 



Of 

137. COLD BRANDY TODDY. 

(Use a whiskey glass. J 
One-half tea-spoon of sugar; 

One-half wine glass of water, dissolved well with a 
spoon; 

1 or 2 lumps of broken iee : 

1 wine glass of brandy; 
stir up well, remove the ice. and serve. 

It is proper to dissolve the sugar with the water, and 
hand the bottle of liquor and glass and spoon to the 
customer to help himself. 

138. HOT LEMONADE. 

(Use a large bar glass.) 

1 table-spoon of sugar; 

5 to 6 dashes of lemon juice: 

Fill wp the glass with hot water ; 
stir up with a spoon, and serve. 

It is always necessary to pour a little hot water into 
the glass at first, and stir a little to prevent the glass 
from breaking. 

139. TOLEDO PUNCH. 

This punch is only prepared for parties, and the 
author composed it for one of the most prominent 
establishments in the West, and styled it Toledo. Mix 
as follows; 

( Take a large punch boivl.j 
Place two pounds of loaf sugar in the bowl; 4 to 5 
bottles of plain soda water; the juice of 4 lemons; 

1 quail of French cognac, and 1 small bunch of winter- 
green; cut up 4 oranges and 1 pineapple, and add the 
slices into the bowl, and also strawberries and grapes 
in season ; mix the ingredients weU with a spoon, and 
add 6 bottles of Champagne, one bottle of brandy. 

2 bottles of French Claret, 4 bottles of Rhine wine, 1 .\ 
gallon of water, and mix the ingredients well together 



— 58 — 



into the bowl, and you will have one of the finest 
punches ever made. It is understood that this punch 
must be cold, surrounded with ice, the same as other 
punches. 

140. I^OCK AND I^YE WHISKEY. 

(Use a ivhiskey glass.) 
The above drink must be very carefully prepared, 
and care must be taken to procure the best rock candy 
syrup, and also the best of rye whiskey, as this drink 
is an effectual remedy for sore throats, etc., in serving* 
Rock and Rye ; put one-half table-spoonful of rock candy 
syrup into the glass, place a spoon in it, and hand the 
bottle of Rye whiskey to the customer, to help himself. 

141. WHISKEY SMASH. 

( Use a large bar glass.) 
One-half table-spoon of sugar; 
3 or 4 sprigs of mint; 

One-half wine glass of water, dissolve w T ell the 
sugar and water, until the essence of the mint 
in the above is well extracted; 
One-half glass filled with fine ice; 
1 wine glass of whiskey; 
mix up well, strain the ingredients into a sour or fancy 
bar glass, ornament with a little fruit in season, and 
serve. 

142. ST. CROIX SOUI^ 

(Use a large bar glass.) 
One-half table-spoon sugar; 
3 or 4 clashes of lemon juice; 

1 squirt Syphon Selters water, dissolved well with a 
spoon ; 

One-half glass of fine shaved ice; 

1 wine glass of St. Croix rum; 
mix ■well, place your fruit in season into a sour glass, 
and strain your above ingredients into the fruit, and 

serve. 



— 59 — 



143. BRANDY SCAFFA. 

(Use a sherry glass.) 

One -quarter glass of raspberry syrup ; 

One-quarter glass of Maracbino ; 

One-quarter glass of Chartreuse (green) ; 
top it oil' with brandy, and serve. 

This drink must be properly prepared to prevent the 
different colors from running into each other, but must 
each have a separate appearance. 

144. FAIVRE'S POUSSE CAFE. 

(Use a sherry nine glass.) 

One-third of a glass of Benedictine ; 

One-third of a glass of Curacao (red); 

One-third of a glass of Kirschwasser; 

2 or 3 drops of bitters (Angostura) ; 
and serve. Attention must be paid to prevent the 
different colors from running into each other, but have 
each a separate appearance. 

145. GIN AND TANSY. 

(Use a whiskey glass.) 
In preparing the above drink, take a small bunch of 
tansy, and put it into an empty bottle or decanter; fill 
up with good old Holland gin, and let it draw suffi- 
ciently to get all the essence of the tansy into the gin; 
in serving this drink, hand out the whiskey glass, and 
also your bottle of gin and tansy mixed, to let the cus- 
tomer help himself. It is always proper, to let the 
customer know the strength of the mixture in the 
bottle, and if it should be too strong, it would be ad- 
visable for the customer to take an equal share of each. 

146. BOWL OF EGG NOGG FO£\ A NEW 
YEARS PARTY. 

In regard to the above drink the bartender must use 
his own judgment as to what quantity he must prepare. 
Mix as follows: 



— SO — 



(Use a large pw^oh hotel for mixing tvo gallons of the 
above mixture. 

2 J pounds fine pulverized sugar; 

20 fresh eggs; have the yolks separated and thin as 
water by being well beaten, and add the yolks 
of the eggs into the sugar, and dissolve this well 
with a spoon; 

2 quarts good old brandy; 

\\ pint St. Croix rum or Jamaica rum; 

\\ gallons good rich milk; 
mix the ingredients well with a ladle, and while pour- 
ing the milk into the above ingredients, you must con- 
tinually stir, to prevent the milk from curling, then 
beat the whites of the eggs, until they present a stiff 
froth, then the white froth should be carefully placed 
upon the above mixture; and in serving, take out the 
mixture with a ladle, put it into a bar glass, place a piece 
of the egg froth on top of the mixture in a tasty man- 
ner, and grate a little nutmeg on top, and serve; and 
you will have a splendid New Years Egg Nogg. 

147. EGG LEMONADE. 

( Use a large bar glass.) 

1 fresh egg; 

1 table-spoon of sugar; 

4 or 5 dashes of lemon juice ; 

Three-quarters of a glass of fine ice ; 
fill the balance up with water; shake up with a shaker, 
until all the ingredients are well mixed; then strain 
it into a large bar glass, and serve. 

148. BRANDY AND GUM. 

[ Use a icluskey glass. ) 

3 or 4 dashes of gum : 

1 or 2 pieces of broken ice; 
place a bar spoon into the glass, and hand this with a 



bottle of brandy to the customer to help himself. 
When any other liquor is called for with the gum, it is 
served in the same manner. 

149. SHE^Y AND EGG. 

( Use a whiskey glass, ) 
In preparing the above drink, place a small portion 
of Sherry wine into the glass, barely enough to cover 
the bottom, to prevent the egg from sticking to the 
glass, then break an ice cold egg into it, hand this out 
to the customer, and also the bottle of Sherry wine to 
help himself. 

150. BRANDY AND SODA. 

(Use a large bar glass, j 

3 or 4 lumps of broken ice ; 

1 wine glass of brandy; 

1 bottle of plain soda water ; 
mix well with a spoon, but attention must be -paid not 
to let the mixture spread over the glass. This is a very 
delicious drink in summer. 

151. AI\F AND AI\F. 

( Use a large ale glass.) 
The above is an old English drink, and has become 
quite a favorite in this country; it is prepared as fol- 
lows : 

One-half glass of porter and the other one-half glass 
of ale; 

but in this country it is mostly understood to use half 
old and half new ale mixed; the proper way is, to ask 
how the customer desires it. 

152. SODA AND NECTAR. 

(Use a large bar glass.) 
3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice ; 
Three-quarters of a glass of water; 



One-half small tea-spoon of bicarbonate of soda, with 
sufficient white sugar to sweeten the whole nicely ; 
when mixed t put in the plain soda, stir well, and drink 
while in a foaming state. 

This drink is an excellent morning drink, and is a 
first-class physic for the bowels. 

153. SHE^Y WINE AND ICE. 

(Use a whiskey glass. J 
1 or 2 lumps of broken ice; 
place a bar spoon into the glass, hand this with the 
bottle of sherry wine out to the customer, to help him- 
self. If a Hotel, Restaurant or Cafe is attached to the 
establishment, and the customer should call for such a 
drink, it is the bartender's duty to pour in a wine glass 
of Sherry wine, but not send the bottle to the table, 
except required. 

154. EGG MILK PUNCH. 

[Use a large bar glass. ) 

1 fresh egg; 

Three-quarters table-spoon of sugar; 

One-half glass of fine shaved ice; 

1 wine glass of brandy; 

1 pony glass of St. Croix rum; 
fill up the balance with good milk, shake the ingredients 
well together, until they become a stiff cream; strain it 
into a large bar glass; grate a little nutmeg on top, 
and serve. 

155. SHERRY WINE AND BITTERS. 

(Use a sherry wine glass.) 
In preparing the above drink, only put in one dash 
of Angostura bitters, and twist or roll the glass in such 
a manner, that the bitters will cover the entire inside 
of the glass; fill the glass up with Sherry wine, and 
serve; and you will have it well mixed. 



156. P(HINE WINE AND SELTERS. 

(Use a large wine glass. J 
In the above drink the bartender's attention is called 
to this fact, that when a customer calls for Rhine wine 
and Selters water, he desires a larger portion of the 
wine than the other; and then again, if he should call 
for Selters water and wine, it would be a larger portion 
of the Selters water than the wine; also attention must 
be paid that both the wine and Selters water are con- 
tinually kept on ice. This is a most favorite drink with 
the German people, and drank by them in many cases 
instead of lemonade. 

157. MAY WINE PUNCH, 

( Use a large punch boitf.j 
Take one or two bunches of TValdnieister or Wood- 
ruff, and cut it up in two or three lengths, place it into 
a large bar glass, and fill up the balance with French 
brandy, and cover it up and leave it stand for two or 
three hours, until the essence of the above is thor- 
oughly extracted; cover the bottom of the bowl with 
loaf sugar, and pour from 6 to 8 bottles of plain soda 
water over the sugar; cut up 6 oranges in slices, one- 
half pineapple, and sufficient berries and grapes; take 
8 bottles of Rhine or Mosel wine, and 2 bottles of 
Champagne; then pour out your Woodruff, etc., into 
the bowl, and stir up with a ladle, and you will have 
two gallons of excellent May wine punch ; and surround 
the bowl with ice; serve it into a wine glass in such a 
manner, that each customer will have a piece of each 
of the above fruit. 

158. HOW TO MIX ABSINTHE. 

In preparing the above chink, you must be particular 
and ask the customer the style he desires it in; some 
desire it prepared in the old French style, and some 
desire it again on the new improved plan. Mix as 
follows: 



i Use a large bar or Absinthe glass. ) 
1 pony glass of Absinthe; take the top part of your 
absinthe glass, which has the form of a bowl, with a 
small round hole in the centre of the bottom, nil the 
bowl up with fine shaved ice, and the balance with 
water; then raise the absinthe bowl up high, and let 
the water from the bowl run or drip into the glass con- 
taining the absinthe, until sufficient of it has done so, 
which will show by the color of the absinthe, then pour 
it into a large bar glass, and seiwe. 

This is what they call an old style French absinthe. 

159. PONY BRANDY. 

( Use a pony glass.) 
In serving the above drink, hand out the pony glass 
filled with brandy, also a small bar glass, and empty 
the brandy into the glass, also a glass of ice water, and 
r little separate ice to cool the brandy. 

160. AMERICAN STYLE OF MIXING 
ABSINTHE. 

(Use a large bar glass, ) 
Three-quarters glass filled with fine ice ; 
6 or 7 dashes of gum syrup; 

1 pony glass of Absinthe ; 

2 wine glasses of water; 

then shake the ingredients, until the outside of the 
shaker is all covered with ice; then strain it into a 
large bar glass, and serve. This is what they call the 
American or frozen absinthe. 

161. BISHOP. 

( Use a large bar glass, j 

1 table-spoon of sugar; 

2 dashes of lime or lemon juice; 
One-half orange squeezed into it; 

One-half wine glass of water dissolved into it ; 
Three-quarters of a glass filled with fine shaved ice; 



— 65 — 



fill the balance with Burgundy; flavor with a few drops 
of Jamaica rum; stir up with a sjdoou; dress the top 
with a little fruit, and serve with a straw. 

162. BRANDY STRAIGHT. 

(Use a whiskey glass.) 
Hand out the glass with the bottle of brandy to the 
customer, also a glass of ice water; and it is proper for 
the bartender, in case the brandy is not kept on ice, to 
put a small luinjD of ice in the glass, to give it a refresh- 
ing taste, and also do the same with all other liquors 
that are not kept on ice. 

163. BRANDY AND GINGER ALE. 

( Use a large bar glass.) 

2 or 3 lumps of broken ice; 

1 wine glass of brandy;. 

1 bottle of good ginger ale; 
mix well together, and particular attention must be 
paid when pouring the ginger ale into the other mix- 
tures, not to let the foam run over the glass, and it is 
customary to ask the customer, what kind of ale he 
desires, the imported or domestic; the imported being 
the best to use, as it mixes better, and will give more 
satisfaction than the other. 

164. ITALIAN STYLE OF MIXING 
ABSINTHE. 

(Use a large bar glass j 

1 pony glass of absinthe ; 

2 or 3 lumps of broken ice; 
2 or 3 dashes of Marachino; 
One-half pony glass of annisette; 

take a small pitcher of ice water and pour into the glass 
the water slowly, and stir with a spoon, and serve. 
This is also a very pleasant way of taking the above 
drink, and gives a good appetite," and is therefore espe- 
cially recommended to be taken before meals. 



— 66 — 



165. GIN AND WORMWOOD. 

(Mm a small bar glass,) 
Take six to eight sprigs of ttoihiwoocI, put these into 
a quart bottle and fill up with Holland gin, leave this 
stand for a few days, until the essence of the worm- 
wood is extracted into the gin. In handing out this, 
pour a little of the above into a small whiskey glass, 
and also the bottle of gin to the customer to help him- 
self; this drink is most generally drank in the eastern 
part of the country, and the wormwood is used as a 
substitute for bitters. 

166. CLARET AND CHAMPAGNE CUP 
A LA BRUNOW. 

( Use a la rge p a n ch bo i vLJ 
(foe a party of twenty.) 

The following Claret and Champagne Cup ought 
from its excellence to be called the Nectar of the Czar, 
as it is so highly appreciated in Russia, where for many 
years it has enjoyed a high reputation amongst the 
aristocracy of the Muscovite Empire. Proportions: 

3 bottles of Claret; 

Two-thirds pint of Curacao ; 

1 pint of Sherry; 

1 jDint of brandy ; 

2 wine glasses of ratafia of raspberries; 

3 oranges and 1 lemon cut in slices; 
Some sprigs of green balm, and of borage ; 

2 bottles of German Selters water; 

3 bottles of soda water; 

stir this together, and sweeten with capillaire or 
pounded sugar, until it ferments; let it stand one hour, 
strain it and ice it well; it is then fit for use; serve in 
small glasses. 

The same for Champagne cup; Champagne instead 
of Claret; noyan instead of ratafia, This quantity is 
for an evening party of twenty persons, for a smaller 
number reduce the proportions. 



— 67 — 



167, BALAKLAVA NECTAR. 

(FOE A PARTY OF FIFTEEN". ) 

Thinly peel the rind of half a lemon, shred it fine, 
and put it in a punch bowl, add four table spoons full 
of crushed sugar and the juice of one lemon; then add: 

1 gill of Marachino; 

2 bottles of soda water; 
2 bottles of Claret; 

2 bottles of Champagne; 
stir well together and dress the top with fruit in season, 
and serve. 

168. BLUE BLAZER. 

(Use a large mug with a handle to it) 

One-half table-spoon of sugar; 

1 wine glass full of Scotch whiskey; 
dissolve well with a little hot water, or else put it over 
the fire and have it boiled up; set the liquid on fire, 
and take it quick and pour it from one mug to the 
other, pour it so about three or four times in long 
streams, until it is well mixed; grate a little nutmeg 
on top; this will have the appearance of a continual 
stream of fire. Attention must be paid to prevent the 
fire from catching over your hands; pour it into a 
large-sized water glass, put a slice of lemon into it, 
and serve. 

169. PEACH AND HONEY. 

(Use a small bar glass.) 

1 table-spoon of honey; 

1 wine glass of peach brandy; 
stir well with a spoon, and serve. 

The above drink is a great favorite drink during the 
winter, and was formerly drank, like Rye and Rock is 
at present, 

5* 



— 68 — 



170. BURNT BRANDY AND PEACH. 

( Use a small bar glass.) 

The above drink is a very popular one in the Southern 
States, where it is sometimes used as a cure for Di- 
arrhoea. 

1 wine glass of cognac; 

One-half table-spoon of white sugar, burned in a 
saucer or plate; 

2 or 3 slices of dried peaches; 

place the dried fruit into a glass and pour the liquid 
over them, grate a little nutmeg on top, and serve. 



171. BLACK STRIPE. 

(Use a small bar glass.) 

1 wine glass of St. Croix mm ; 

1 table-spoon of molasses. 

This chink can either be made in summer or winter ; 
if in the former season, mix in one table-spoon of 
water and cool with shaved ice; if in the latter, fill up the 
glass with boiling water, use only the best New Orleans 
molasses and grate a little nutmeg on top. 

172. ORCHARD PUNCH. 

(Use a large bar glass.) 

2 table-spoons of orchard syrup; 

2 or 3 dashes of lime or lemon juice ; 

One-half pony glass of pineapple syrup, dissolved 
well with a little water; 

Fill the glass with fine ice; 

1 wine glass of California brandy; 
mix well with a spoon, and ornament with grapes, 
oranges, pineapple, and berries, and toj) it off with a 
little Poil wine, and serve with a straw. 



— 69 — 



173. GIN AND MOLASSES. 

(Use a whislcey glass* ) 

Pour into the glass a small portion of gin, to cover 
the bottom of it, then take one table-spoon of Xew 
Orleans black molasses, and hand this out with a bar 
sjDOon, and the bottle of gin to the customer to help 
himself. Attention is called, that hot water must be 
used to clean the glass after being used, as it will be 
unable to clean it in any other way. 



174. MULLED CLARET AND EGG. 

f Use a large bar glass.) 

1 .table-spoon of sugar; 
1 dash of lemon juice ; 

1 tea-sjDOon of cloves and cinnamon mixed; 

1 J wine glass of Claret wine ; 
pour this into a dish and put it over the lire, until it is 
boiled up; 2 yolks of fresh eggs, with a little white 
sugar, beaten to a batter; pour the hot wine on top of 
the eggs, stirring continually while doing so, grate a 
little nutmeg on top, and serve. 

Attention must be paid, not to pour the eggs over 
the wine, as it would spoil it. 



175. EAST INDIA COCKTAIL. 

( Use a large bar glass.) 

Fill the glass with shaved ice ; 
1 tea-spoon of raspberry syrup; 

1 tea-spoon of Curacao (red); 

2 or 3 dashes of bitters (Angostura); 
2 dashes of Marachino; 

1 wine glass of brandy; 
stir up with a spoon, strain into a cocktail glass, and 
twist a piece of lemon peel on top, and serve. 



— 70 — 



176. WHISKEY COBBLER. 

(Use a large bar glass.) 
One-half table-spoon of sugar; 
l£ table-spoon of pineapple syrup; 
One-half wine glass water, dissolved well with a 
spoon; 

Fill up the glass with fine ice; 

1 wine glass of whiskey; 
stir up well rath a spoon, and ornament on top with 
grapes, oranges, pineapple, and berries, in season, and 
serve with a straw. 

177. WHISKEY AND CIDE^. 

( Use a whiskey glass, J 
Hand the bottle of whiskey to the customer to help 
himself, fill up the glass with good apple cider, stir up 
with a spoon, and serve ; and you will have a very nice 
drink. The author recommends good apple cider in 
preference to pear, fruit, or any other kind of cider. 

178. GIN AND MILK. 

(Use a whiskey glass, j 
Hand the bottle of gin, glass, and spoon out to the 
customer to help himself, fill up the balance with good, 
nice, rich ice cold milk, stir up with a spoon, and you 
have a very nice drink. 

179. BOTTLE COCKTAIL FOI^ PARTIES, 

Three-quarters of a quart of good old whiskey; 

1 pony glass full of Curacao (red); 

One-quarter wine glass of gum syrup; 

Three-quarters pony glass of Angostura bitters; 
mix this well by pouring it into one shaker from the 
other, until it is thoroughly mixed, pour it into a bottle, 
cork it, and you will have an elegant bottle of cocktail. 



180. CHAMPAGNE JULEP. 

(Use a fancy champagne julep glass.) 

Take the sugar tongue and place 1 lunip of loaf sugar 
into the glass, 1 long sprig of fresh mint, add this also 
into the glass of sugar, then -pour your champagne into 
the glass very slowly, and while doing so, keep on stir- 
ring gently all the time, place a piece of orange and a 
few strawberries on top, and serve. 

The above drink does not require to be dissolved as 
much as any other julep or else the Champagne will 
lose its flavor and natural taste. 

181. SOLDIERS' CAMPING PUNCH. 

Boil a large kettle of strong black coffee, take a large 
dish and put four pounds of lump sugar over this; 
then pour four bottles of brandy and two bottles Ja- 
maica rum over the sugar, and set it on fire, and let the 
sugar dissolve and drop into the black coffee; stir this 
well up, and you will have a good hot punch for a sol- 
dier on guard. 

182. GOLDEN SLIPPER. 

(Use a wine glass.) 

One-half wine glass of Chartreuse (yellow); 

1 yolk of a fresh cold egg; 

One-half wine glass of Danziger Goldwasser. 

The above drink is a great favorite of the American 
ladies, and must be mixed in a very careful manner, so 
that the yolk of the egg does not run into the liquor. 

183. BOMBAY PUNCH. 

(Use a large bowl.) 
Rub the sugar over the lemons, until it has absorbed 
all the yellow part of the skins of 6 lemons, then put in 
the punch bowl 

1 pound of loaf sugar; 

2 bottles of imported Selters water; 



— 72 — 



1 pineappie, cut up into slices; 
6 oranges, cut up into slices; 

1 box strawberries ; 

2 lemons, cut up into slices; 
Mix well with a spoon and add 
4 bottles of Champagne; 

1 bottle of brandy; 

1 bottle of pale sherry; 

1 bottle Madeira wine; 

1 gill of Maraehino; 
stir up well with a spoon or ladle, and surround the 
bowl with ice; serve it into a wine glass in such man- 
ner, that each customer will hare a piece of the above 
fruit. 

184, GIN AND CALMUS, 

(Use a whiskey glass. ) 
In preparing the above drink, take 3 or 4 long pieces 
of calmus root, cut in small pieces and put it into an 
empty bottle; fill up the bottle with gin, and let it 
draw sufficiently to get all the essence of the calmus 
into the gin. In serving this drink, hand out the 
whiskey glass and also the bottle of gin and calmus 
mixed, to let the customer help himself. It is always 
proper to let the customer know the strength of the 
mixture in the bottle, and if it should be too strong, it 
would be better for the customer to take an equal 
share of both. 

^85. ORGEAT LEMONADE. 

(Use a large bar glass, j 
wine glass of Orgeat syrup; 
One-half table-spoon of sugar; 
4 or 5 dashes lemon juice; 
Three-quarters glass of shaved ice ; 
fill up the glass with water; mix up well, and ornament 
the top with grapes, fruit, and berries, in season, and 
serve with a straw. This is a fine drink in warm 
climates. 



186, PRUSSIAN GRANDEUR PUNCH. 

(Use a large bowl.) 
pound of loaf sugar; 

6 lemon slices; 

1 gill Annisetfce; 

1 bottle Berlin Kummel; 

6 orange slices; 

1 bottle Kirschwasser ; 

One-lialf gallon of water: 

6 bottles of Nordhauser Branntwein; 

1 gill of Curacao ; 
stir up well with a punch ladle, and surround the bowl 
with ice, ajid serve in a wine glass. 

187. EMPIRE'S PUNCH. 

(Use an extra large bowl.) 

Rub the j^eel of four fine lemons, and also the peel of 
two oranges, until it has absorbed all the yellow part of 
the lemon and orange. 

l.J pounds of lump sugar; 

1 pineapple, cut up in slices; 

12 fine oranges, cut up in slices; 

1 box of strawberries; 

2 bottles Appollinaris water; mix the above ingre- 

dients well with a ladle, and add 
One-half gill of Marachino; 
One-half gill of Curacao ; 
One-half gill of Benedictine; 
One-half gill of Jamaica rum; 

1 bottle of brandy ; 

6 bottles of Champagne; 
■i bottles of Tokay wine; 

2 bottles of Madeira ; 

4 bottles of Chateau Lafitte ; 
and mix this well with a large ladle, then strain through 
a very fine sieve into a clean bowl and surround the 
bowl with ice, fill it up over the edge of the bowl, Avhich 
will give it a beautiful appearance, and dress the edge 



with some leaves, and fruit, and berries, and ornament 
the punch in a fancy manner with grapes, oranges, pine- 
apple, strawberries, and serve in a vine glass, and you 
wiH have one of the finest jmnches ever made. 

188. GOLDEN FIZZ. 

( Use a large bar glass, ) 
One- table spoon of sugar; 
2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice ; 
1 wine glass of either whiskey or gin (Tom); 
1 egg (the yolk only); 

Three-quarters glass filled with fine shaved ice; 
shake up well with a shaker, strain it into a^good-sized 
fizz glass, fill up the glass with Syphon, Vichy, or Sorters 
water, mix well with a spoon, and serve. 


