


Text copyright © 2015, 2019 by Make It Nice Hospitality, LLC.
Preface copyright © 2019 by Will Guidara.
Foreword copyright © 2015, 2019 by David Wondrich.
Illustrations copyright © 2015, 2019 by Antoine Ricardou.
All rights reserved.
Published in the United States by Ten Speed Press, an imprint of Random
House, a division of Penguin Random House LLC, New York.
www.tenspeed.com
Ten Speed Press and the Ten Speed Press colophon are registered trademarks
of Penguin Random House LLC.
Portions of this material appeared in The NoMad Cookbook, published in 2015
by Ten Speed Press, an imprint of Random House, a division of Penguin
Random House LLC.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data is on file with the
publisher.
ISBN 9780399582691
Ebook ISBN 9780399582707
v5.4
prh


CONTENTS
PREFACE
by Will Guidara
FOREWORD
by David Wondrich
INTRODUCTION
HOW TO USE THIS BOOK
SERVICE MANUAL
Apéritifs
Light Spirited
Dark Spirited
Classics
Soft Cocktails
Basics
MAI TAI COCKTAIL EXPLOSION
ABOUT THE AUTHOR
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
INDEX


PREFACE
by Will Guidara
Greetings, dear reader. Although you don’t know it yet, you’re about to get
Leo’d, and I couldn’t be happier for you.
What? You don’t know what that means? Don’t worry, you haven’t missed
the latest pop-culture trend or internet meme. Getting Leo’d is a phrase we use
at Make It Nice, the company that comprises our restaurants and bars: Eleven
Madison Park, The NoMad, The NoMad Bar, and Made Nice. In its purest
form, it describes the following. Once in a while, one of us or a member of
our team will show up to work bleary-eyed and disheveled, which is neither
normal nor acceptable in the organization. Inevitably, the shorthand
explanation for this sorry and hilarious sight is, “I got Leo’d last night.”
The phrase guarantees instant forgiveness for having been out later than is
prudent, after our kick-ass bar director Leo Robitschek spontaneously treated
us to a magical night spent bouncing from one favorite haunt to another, until
we realized—much too late—that time had breezed by. The forgiveness
comes because Leo is a force of nature, as irresistible in his ability to sweep
people up for an evening of harmless revelry as he is at inspiring his army of
mixologists to help redefine cocktail culture in the United States.
I am writing this preface at the bar at The NoMad in New York City.
There are few places I’d rather savor a drink than at the bar in one of our
restaurants. That’s not a brag; it’s a compliment and tribute to Leo. I used to
have a predisposition toward Italian reds, but am now savoring what has
become my go-to cocktail: a Manhattan. The drink—fashioned from whiskey
or rye, vermouth, and a dash of bitters—is a lot like Leo: simple,
straightforward, and perfectly crafted. (I’d be less than honest if I didn’t also
acknowledge that, like a Manhattan, Leo can get you hammered.)
The best restaurants are extensions and expressions of their creators, and the
same is true of bars. And our bars, from the sophisticated elegance of Eleven
Madison Park to the posh playpen of the NoMads, grew from the knowledge,
passion, taste, and teachings of Leo. So who is this Mr. Robitschek? Well,
that’s a sticky question because he’s actually two people. The first, the one
whom guests and lucky diners know, is an affable, twenty-first-century
iteration of the quintessential American barman—hair cropped close like Clark
Kent’s, silk vest or smoking jacket draped over a well-starched collared shirt,
arms that somehow never tire of shaking or stirring, and a smile that conveys
rakish charm.
Similar to our bars, which make you feel as though you are at the center of
the modern cocktail universe while at the same time transported to its golden
age, Leo is a man a bit out of time. Had he lived in the mid- to latenineteenth century, when the lion’s share of classic cocktails was first devised,
I imagine that he’d have concocted his own hall of famers to stand tin to tin
with the Old-Fashioned, Gin Fizz, Mint Julep, and other greats. In fact, the
future may show that he has actually done this, by creating countless
contemporary drinks that steer clear of the pyrotechnics and shock value
(outlandish glassware, dry ice) that have seduced his contemporaries. As the
decades, and then the centuries, blur together, perhaps Leo’s Hot Lips
(jalapeño-infused blanco tequila, mezcal, pineapple, and vanilla) and his Start
Me Up (bourbon, Trinidadian rum, Strega, orange bitters, honey, ginger, and
lemon) will be named in the same breath as the cocktails that preceded them;
they’re already being ordered together. All of which is a long way of saying
that Leo is a living, breathing example of substance over style. Not that Leo is
a slave to the past. In reality, he’s a quietly intense innovator. Beyond his
signature drinks, one of his singular contributions to cocktail culture is his
systematization of craft cocktails at the level and volume our restaurants
demand. The fast-food industry had Ray Kroc; the auto industry had Henry
Ford; we have Leo Robitschek.
Like most creatives who want to accomplish Big Things, Leo knows the
force and inevitability of collaboration and empowerment. His recipe-testing
sessions rank as legend within the industry. Periodically, he gathers several
team members from one restaurant to dream up new cocktails en masse—
mixing, tasting, debating, and re-testing while he himself bangs away at his
laptop like Stevie Wonder at full tilt, capturing every detail. I say “from one
restaurant” because Leo has concocted different and constantly changing drink
lists for all of our venues, including three different NoMads (New York, Los
Angeles, Las Vegas), that each reflect the distinct character of their environs.
The second Leo persona is a private yang that balances his public yin. We,
his professional family, have a backstage pass to the mad scientist who’s driven
to extremes by seriousness about his work, a love for the company, and a deep
and instinctive sense of hospitality. If he spots a guest looking lost, he’s the first
one to offer help, but his passion can also express itself in, let’s say, “more
intense” ways. Like many geniuses, if somebody doesn’t hew to his vision, he
will let them know. He also has a full complement of absent-minded-professor
tics, functions on his own schedule and priorities, and is constantly in motion,
whether from place to place, idea to idea, or side to side as he stands and
sways during conversations and meetings. Can he be difficult? Of course, he
can. But so can the rest of us. And his quirks come from the same place as
ours—not serving an ego but rather the greater good, meaning, our company,
our team, our restaurants, our bars, and—above all—our guests. We love both
sides of this true original and indispensable colleague.
Two of Leo’s greatest passions are sharing his knowledge and his
enthusiasm. Unsurprisingly, he drafted his team to help with this book, giving
them another way to participate, another outlet for their own passions, and
another thing to be proud of achieving together. But perhaps nothing sums up
Leo more than a funny historical footnote about this book. (Well, it’s funny to
me but a lingering grudge for him, and something that tells you all you need
to know about his single-minded commitment to craftsmanship, detail, and
perfection.) He wanted desperately to include ten more pages…about ice.
If you’re curious what those pages might have taught you and you happen
to see Leo at one of our bars, by all means, ask him. He’ll be only too happy
to tell you. You might be there for a while. But then you’ll be able to tell
people one of the greatest things any of us can tell anybody—that you got
Leo’d.
Happy reading, and cheers!
FOREWORD
by David Wondrich
We all have our little time-travel fantasies. Ever since I started digging into the
annals of the cocktail, my particular E-ticket daydream has involved popping
back to, say, 1893 and strolling up the stretch of Broadway between TwentyThird Street and Thirty-Fourth Street, with (the point of the exercise) stops at
all the hotels. At the end of the nineteenth century, New York hotel bars had
the most elegant décor, the finest liquors, the most skillful bartenders, and the
sportiest, most interesting clientele in the world; and that stretch of Broadway
—the so-called “cocktail route”—had most of the grand hotels.
I’d start my walk by going half a block up the street and making a sharp left
through the doors of the Fifth Avenue Hotel, at the northwest corner of
Twenty-Third Street and Broadway. The Fifth Avenue was the sort of place
where princes and presidents stayed; where power was wielded and political
careers were launched with a quiet handshake. But while Jim Gray, the hotel’s
longtime head bartender, was known for sporting two or three different
elaborate and colorfully embroidered silk vests during the course of a shift, his
drinks were anything but fancy. His signature drink was an Old-Fashioned
Whiskey Cocktail so down-to-earth that he didn’t even use bitters in it. He
served up the first one to Ulysses S. Grant in 1881 (or so he claimed), and I’d
have him mix one for me, too.
Then, as much as I’d like to linger, I’d make the long trek up to Broadway
and Twenty-Fourth, where I’d call in at the quiet, tony Hotel Albemarle and
persuade James Burri, the Swiss bartender, to make me a gin-and-raspberry
Albemarle Fizz. After that, I’d need a bit of a walk, so I’d cut across Madison
Square and put in at the old Ashland House on Twenty-Fourth Street, a block
east of the park. In 1933, Patsy Duffy, the head bartender, would write the
Repeal Era’s definitive bar guide. In 1893, he was still a genial young emigrant
from County Roscommon who claimed to make a fine Irish Whiskey Punch.
I’d find out. I’d want to stay a spell, I’m sure. But up next would be the
Hoffman House, at the corner of Twenty-Fifth and Broadway, and its bar.
And what a bar it was: opulent, even decadent, it was a symphony in carved
mahogany, brass, and painted pink female flesh. But it was also excellent—
under the direction of owner Edward S. Stokes and head bartender Billy
Mulhall, it was widely held to mix the best drinks in the country. But what to
have? A Peerless Cocktail, a New Amsterdam, a Hoffman House Special? A
Mountain Dew Sour? A Northrop Fizz? A Billy Deutsch? One of the six
different Toddies or five Coolers that Mulhall’s list advertised? Then again,
old-time bartenders prided themselves on their ability to size up a customer
and fit him out with something appropriate, so why not trust myself to
Mulhall’s judgment?
If I could pry myself away from the Hoffman House and weave my way up
to Twenty-Sixth Street, I could catch my breath with a Gin Rickey at the bar
where it was introduced to the city, at the St. James Hotel on the west, or
“dollar” side, of Broadway. Or I could cross to the east, or “shilling” side, and
have a Delmonico Cocktail at the bar of Delmonico’s famous restaurant. At
either, I’d find a lively crowd of the rich and sporty; probably best to check
’em both out. If I were to continue east on Twenty-Sixth, I’d hit the
Brunswick House, whose bar was a bastion of the country gentry, and…at this
point I should just stick to Broadway, particularly since Twenty-Seventh
Street and Twenty-Eighth Street formed a Scylla and Charybdis of,
respectively, “parlor houses”—brothels—and gambling dens, and I’m not the
type to patronize either (and if I were I certainly wouldn’t admit it here).
Even if I dodged those I’d probably find myself stuck on Fifth Avenue,
beguiled by the bar of the Holland House Hotel or the Manhattan Club or
the brand-new Waldorf Hotel. I might never find my way back to Broadway.
That would mean I’d miss Jim Butler at the Gilsey House, at the northeast
corner of Broadway and Twenty-Ninth Street, and the opportunity to sip one
of his Florence Cocktails while watching him water the mixed throng of
ward-heelers, sports, and actors who patronized the joint (and went through
fifty-two dozen lemons a day). I wouldn’t want to do that. Nor would I want
to pass up the chance to pause for a moment in front of the Bijou Theatre, on
the dollar side just above Thirtieth Street, where the great pioneer of
American bartending Jerry Thomas had his “Museum and Art Gallery” back
in the 1870s. By this point, even a daydreamer has to acknowledge the effect
of all those drinks; I’d most likely, therefore, skip the dubious pleasures of
Dick Darling’s rough and ready saloon and the massive White Horse billiard
hall, both on that stretch of Broadway, and head straight for the Grand Hotel
at the southeast corner of Thirty-First Street for one of its famous Vermouth
Cocktails (surely that couldn’t do me any harm). And perhaps I’d merely poke
my head in at the bar of the Hotel Imperial, up at Thirty-Second Street, to
look at the large paintings of “scenes from poems by American poets” with
which it was adorned. Okay, if John Palmer’s behind the bar I’d better have
one of his gin-and-vermouth Imperial Cocktails. But that’s it.
By the time Prohibition came in 1919, most of these bars were gone. The
hotel district had moved above Forty-Second Street, as had Delmonico’s, and
many of the survivors were torn down to be replaced by commercial lofts. Of
them all, only the Gilsey House, the Imperial, and the Holland House are
even still standing, though not as hotels. The neighborhood became a place
for light manufacturing, wholesaling, and peddling, not drinking, carousing,
and carrying on. At the end of the twentieth century it saw a bit of a revival as
those loft buildings proved useful spaces for dance clubs and such, and the new
century brought in a restaurant or two, but they didn’t really change things
much. The neighborhood still kept the ragtag daytime bustle and the
nighttime darkness and silence that had characterized it for almost a century.
There was nothing to recall its former glory; none of the snap and dash and
great, gaudy show. There was no great cocktail bar anywhere on what should
be hallowed ground for American bartending.
Enter The NoMad. Four years ago, I sat down with Daniel Humm, Will
Guidara, and Leo Robitschek of Eleven Madison Park, the flagship for fine
dining on the east side of Madison Square. We were at the beer garden on the
roof of Eataly, which was fitting: Eataly is on the site of the Fifth Avenue
Hotel. What they outlined for me was a plan to build a hotel bar that could
hold its head up in that kind of company. It would be at Broadway and
Twenty-Eighth, in a fine old office building right in the middle of the old
cocktail route, and Leo would be its Billy Mulhall. I was intrigued, to be sure;
if anybody could pull it off, it was Leo. Then, a few months later, I walked
into the bar.
My first reaction, frankly, was to laugh. Dominick Venegas was behind the
bar, backlit and standing between two pagan idol–size wooden elephants.
Bearded, burly, and grinning, Dominick looked like the head priest of some
dark cult of the cocktail. This was not the standard, could-be-anywhere New
York hotel bar. It’s as if Leo and his crew drilled deep into the bedrock
beneath the building and found the pool of residual bar juju that had lurked
there untapped for a hundred years. The drinks I had that night, and in fact
every drink I’ve had at NoMad since, served to confirm that impression.
Now I don’t have to dream of Jim Gray and John Palmer. I’ve got Leo
Robitschek. And Chris Lowder and Jessica Gonzalez and Lacy Hawkins and
Pietro Collina and—and I’ll let Leo tell the rest. It’s his story, after all, not
mine.


INTRODUCTION
It’s three o’clock in the morning and I’m sitting in New York City at our
local bar with a few members of my team, reflecting over a few pints on that
night’s service. My day began seventeen hours earlier, at ten o’clock the
previous morning—which alternately feels like it was moments ago and weeks
in the past. When I walked through the door of The NoMad yesterday
morning, the prep team had already been at it for hours, producing more than
one hundred quarts of juice and the four hundred hand-cut citrus twists we
would need for service that day. Bartenders and barbacks arrived next to ready
the Elephant Bar and its sibling next door; there were infusions and syrups to
prepare and inventory, tools to gather and work stations to set, cases and cases
of liquor to receive and catalog.
It’s a mad dash to prepare for service; over the course of a day, hundreds of
guests will come through our doors. Some will dine in the restaurant, some
will lounge in the library, some will pull up a stool to sit with us at the bars.
Nearly all of them will have a cocktail. Our team consists of fifteen people per
night, and everyone works their asses off during their ten-hour shifts—stirring,
mixing, and serving nonstop. Now that it’s 3 a.m. we should, admittedly, call
it a night—because tomorrow, we do it all over again.
I began bartending at Eleven Madison Park (EMP) in the spring of 2005. At
that time, the restaurant was a busy brasserie known for its warm service and
accessible fare. The bar was a meeting place for local businesspeople and a
holding area for guests waiting for a table. The cocktail menu comprised eight
proprietary drinks unchanged since the restaurant’s opening in 1998. The
bartenders were all friendly and efficient; they were as thrilled to pour you a
glass of wine or fashion you a gin and tonic as to mix one of the drinks from
the menu. But, as with most dining destinations in New York in 2005, the
restaurant had no real cocktail culture.
In 2006, EMP began to evolve. A rising chef, Daniel Humm, took the
helm of the kitchen, and a young dining room guy, Will Guidara, joined the
team as our general manager. They were determined to make radical changes
to the restaurant—to elevate the experience to a level worthy of the luxurious
grandeur of its dining room.
As always, with change came resistance. Many of the staff had worked there
for years. There were some who embraced this new direction—but for those
who did not, well, their tenure at the restaurant was drawing to a close. So I
was scared shitless when Will and Daniel called me into their office for a talk.
I was anxiously expecting the boot, but I was wrong. They had very high
aspirations for the bar at EMP, and they felt that I, acting as head bartender,
was the person to take it there. They made their goal explicit: They wanted
our bar—in spite of the fact that it was a “restaurant bar”—to be one of the
best in the world.
In 2006, good cocktails were not associated with restaurants, let alone fine
dining restaurants. There were a few pioneering cocktail bars, like Pegu Club
and Milk and Honey, that were bringing back the craft of the cocktail and
devoting themselves to techniques and ingredients just as chefs did. But for the
most part, you would be hard-pressed to find innovative and well-made
cocktails at many other bars, let alone restaurant bars.
Essentially, Will and Chef were asking me to do something that had never
been done before: create a cocktail program that maintained the rigorous
standards of a top-tier fine dining restaurant—drinks that weren’t just an
afterthought, but expressed the spirit and philosophy of the restaurant in
which they were served. It might have been my lack of confidence, or maybe
my shock that I was still gainfully employed, but my first reaction was to laugh
out loud. This was not the response they’d wanted to hear. That’s when I
received the first of many “Will Guidara” looks. (Years later, Will admitted
that he thought about letting me go, right there and then.)
I not only survived the rest of the meeting, but I also started to become
very, very excited by the ideas Will and Chef were sharing. Over the course
of the next two hours, we ironed out our goals. We wanted to create a fourstar restaurant for our generation, one that didn’t focus solely on food and
wine, but rather approached everything we served—beer, coffee, tea, and
what was to become the focus of my life, cocktails—with the same intensity
of purpose.


When I left their office and stepped back behind the bar at EMP, I looked
at it in a way that I never had before. I couldn’t help but think about where I
was four years earlier: sitting behind a desk at an investment bank. It was a
good job, I was making decent money, and above all else, my mom was
proud. But I hated it. After a year of trying to convince myself that this was
what I wanted to do, I finally quit, officially beginning my quarter-life crisis.
A friend of mine was an investor at the very popular restaurant Sushi Samba,
and suggested I work there. So a few weeks later, I traded in my suit for a
brightly colored shirt and tight black pants, and got to work behind the bar.
Sushi Samba was one of the hippest places in town—it even made multiple
appearances on Sex and the City. (The show filmed at EMP a few years later—
remember the scene when Carrie found out Big was engaged and knocked
over a tray while tripping down the stairs? To this day I question why they
were so enamored with me and the restaurants where I was working. But I
digress.…) The training at Sushi Samba was intense. They required mandatory
wine, sake, beer, and spirit classes, which were led by Paul Tanguay and his
staff. The classes opened my eyes to the vast world of beverage, and I slowly
began to appreciate in ways I never had before the things I had been serving.
But my appreciation for well-crafted cocktails didn’t come until a few months
later when a coworker took me to the new hot spot, Pegu Club.
It was a Wednesday at 11 p.m. when we walked into the bar. I opened the
menu to see a list of unfamiliar cocktails, all of which included ingredients I
had never seen. I wanted a vodka cocktail and the only one they had
contained a smoky Scotch that sounded absolutely disgusting to me at the
time. Maybe the bartender overheard my desire for vodka, or perhaps he saw
my look of confusion, but he suggested I order a Gin-Gin Mule. I did,
hesitantly. Unsure of what to expect, I glanced over at the bar while he was
making my drink, and I was captivated. The process was beautiful, almost like
a dance—it was clear he took his craft seriously. The way he measured every
ingredient precisely using this thing that I would later learn to call a jigger; the
way he hit the mint, bunched it together, and placed it perfectly in the drink,
effortlessly but with absolute intention. I was fascinated. And then the first sip.
It was so flavorful—spice from the ginger, a minty freshness, a citrus bang, and
gin, combined in the most pleasant way imaginable. Had I really just enjoyed
gin?
Back in the real world of my day job, I still wasn’t even sure that being a
bartender was my true calling. I’d always wanted to be a doctor, but years
earlier had given up on the idea because I never thought I’d be able to afford
medical school. But working in restaurants in New York City, I came to
realize that there was no limit to how much debt one person could be in, so I
took out some more student loans in order to pursue my dream. I enrolled in
the pre-med post-baccalaureate program at Hunter College and began my
studies while continuing to bartend at night. Trying to juggle school, work,
and life was almost unmanageable at first—homework, so much fucking
homework!—until I applied for a job at one of Danny Meyer’s properties,
EMP. Many of my friends had gone to work for Danny, and said he was
running restaurants in a different, more respectful way. They were happy and
had balanced lives; mine was full of stress and chaos. When I was offered a
position tending bar at EMP, I accepted without hesitation.
Flash forward one year, and there I was, behind the bar at EMP after my
meeting with Will and Chef, who had just presented me with the largest
challenge of my career. You can appreciate why I was a bit overwhelmed. But
I knew how I’d start. My feeling is that any time you are trying to build
something from the ground up, you have to start with the basics. So the first
revamped cocktail menu at EMP featured a list of classic ones I had been
making at home since that first night at Pegu Club: Bronx Cocktail, Last
Word, Sazerac, Ritz, Brandy Crusta, Paloma, Singapore Sling, and a Vodka
Negroni (gasp!). It turned out that this list of classics ended up being one of
the secrets of our success—our team focused on perfecting each drink on our
rather small menu. Guests were excited to discover these historic recipes, and
they began to realize drinks really do taste better when they’re treated with
precision. Even the G&T boys from Credit Suisse (not known for being the
most adventurous diners at EMP) started to get excited about the new drinks.
One day, the next evolution of our bar program was sparked when I was
working lunch service and a guest ordered an iced tea. We had recently
created a seasonal syrup program for our iced teas, so when I placed the tea in
front of him I put three different syrups alongside it: simple syrup,
pomegranate hibiscus, and ginger lime. Upon naming each, I realized that our
pastry team had been making two essential cocktail components—grenadine
(which is essentially a pomegranate syrup) and the base of ginger beer—just a
few feet from where I was standing. Up to this point, we were using
purchased products, just like the majority of other bars in town, while on the
other side of the wall we had all the tools to make, well, whatever we
dreamed of. Recognizing that we could work with an entire team of talented
chefs, with unbelievable palates and walk-ins full of exquisite ingredients,
opened up a whole new realm of possibilities. Soon the pastry chefs became
my best friends, and over the next several months we served cocktails using
house-made orgeat; fresh syrups of raspberry, malted banana, spiced pumpkin;
and more. We started brandying our own local cherries, created our first
house bitters, and crafted a nonalcoholic cocktail around an heirloom tomato
soda that Chef and I developed together. Now being a restaurant bar was no
longer something that we needed to overcome; it was an advantage. This
collaboration between the bar and the kitchen has defined our cocktail
programs ever since.
From there we began working with the kitchen in other ways; not just to
create elements for our drinks, but also looking to them for inspiration,
whether from ingredients they were using or for the flavor combinations they
were creating. One night, Chef presented a new dish at EMP, a roasted duck
with lavender and honey, the only item on that EMP menu that is still served
today. I was blown away when I first tasted its smoky, floral, gamey flavors,
and I really wanted to re-create them in a cocktail. Combining smoky and
floral notes may seem common now, but back then, it was game-changing. So
the Bee Lavender (this page) was born, one of the first cocktails I was really
proud of, and one of many inspired by our kitchen.
One day in 2010, Will and Chef once again asked to meet with me in their
office. And so I went, with no clue of what to expect, still a little bit scared,
but much more confident. Will gave me a new look, a look that I had not
seen before, but one that apparently meant “are you sure you want to be a
doctor?”
This is the conversation that ensued.
Will: What do you want to do with your life?
Me: I’m going to be a doctor.
Will: Are you sure you want to be a doctor?
Me: I just spent $60,000 on school; I’m going to be a doctor.
Chef: Let’s pretend you can’t be a doctor;
then what would you want to be?
Honestly, I’d asked myself the same question before. It was becoming very
apparent—to me, to Will, and to everyone around me—that my love of
cocktails wasn’t just a passing interest. And we were all starting to question
how I could just leave it behind. So when Chef asked me what I would do if I
wasn’t going to be a doctor, I knew the answer. After all, I had invested just as
much time researching cocktails as I had spent preparing for medical school. I
was in love with the history and folklore of cocktails and the story of the great
hotel bars of the past (some of which still existed, though they had lost their
luster). I would often find myself in a daze, designing my grand hotel bar—but
how do you break it to your Venezuelan Jewish mother that you are
foregoing medical school to be a bartender?
So I told Will and Chef (it sounds crazy, but I promise this is true) that if I
wasn’t going to be a doctor, I wanted to open a hotel bar. Will looked at me
and said, “Let’s go for a walk.”
The three of us stepped out of EMP, went north, and walked across
Madison Square Park. We took a left on Twenty-Sixth Street and a right on
Broadway and walked up to the corner of Twenty-Eighth. We entered a
boarded-up service area, rounded a few corners, and stood between two
buildings surrounded by about fifteen feet of garbage covered in snow. Chef
looked at me with a big smile and said, “Here it is!” It was, of course, the site
of the future NoMad.
Two years later, in 2012, I found myself standing in the same place, this
time on a Persian rug on top of a limestone floor, underneath a glass-ceilinged
atrium, looking at my fully stocked mahogany bar. The last year had been
insane; I was no longer in school, but I was busier than ever, my days and
nights fully consumed with opening The NoMad. We were developing
training manuals, hiring staff, ordering glassware, writing a spirits list,
producing syrups, and, most time-consuming of all, developing a list of fifty
cocktails that would be served throughout the entire hotel but come out of
only one bar.
The entire process required an amazing team, and I was fortunate to have
the best one could hope for. Our staff included people I had trained at EMP,
others I had managed during the apprentice program at Tales of the Cocktail,
and still others whose work I had admired while perched on stools in other
bars throughout the city. These were the people who would allow Chef, Will,
and me to follow through on our ambitious goal: to create a modern-day
version of the grand hotel bars of the past.
March 26, 2012—opening day—arrived. We were ready. We had trained
our staff extensively, prepared all our syrups and infusions, procured the best
tools for the job, and created a list of tirelessly tested cocktails.
But things didn’t go as planned. We opened the doors and we got crushed.
Expecting to sell a couple of hundred cocktails, based on our experience at
EMP, we sold more than a thousand on our first night. Yet we were still a
restaurant bar, and guests wanted their cocktails within five minutes, or at the
very least before their appetizer arrived—it seemed impossible. How were we
going to make this many craft cocktails at such a high volume in such a short
period of time? I thought to myself, “Maybe it would have been easier to be a
doctor.”
We couldn’t compromise on the quality of our drinks, and I refused to rob
our menu of the diversity I was so proud of, but we needed to make some
kind of change. Once again, looking to the kitchen gave us our solution. We
started to treat our prep just as the kitchen treats its mise en place: prepping all
the ingredients in advance; incorporating flavors into syrups and infusions
rather than adding them à la minute; and finding more efficient ways to set up
our bar. I couldn’t have survived without my team, and I continue to be
amazed that in spite of fifteen- and sixteen-hour shifts we didn’t lose any
opening bar staff in the first year and a half.
In the time since writing the first version of this book, so much has
happened. We won the 2014 James Beard Award for Outstanding Bar
Program as well as numerous Tales of the Cocktail awards, including Best
American Hotel Bar, Best American Restaurant Bar, Best High Volume
Cocktail Bar, and Best American Bar Team. We also reached number three in
The World’s 50 Best Bars and won Best Bar in North America two years in a
row. The NoMad has expanded to Los Angles, Las Vegas, and London; but,
more important, we’ve built an incredible family and a strong culture and
continue to grow and evolve our program every day.
The following pages tell the story of The NoMad through our cocktails.
Our program continues to evolve in the pursuit of excellence, yet I am
constantly reminded that my success is due not only to hard work, but also to
timing and luck. I am grateful that I get to spend my life creating drinking
experiences for so many different kinds of people, surrounded by an inspiring
team (all of whom know how to shake better than me, and also have more
tattoos). I am also happy to report that my Venezuelan Jewish mother is proud
of her bartender son.




HOW TO USE THIS BOOK
This book reflects my style of bartending, one that has developed through
plenty of research along with lots of trial and error. I did not have a mentor
coming up behind the bar, nor was I trained by one of the many great bar
families. My cocktails are inspired by my surroundings, family and friends,
books I’ve read, and the many talented people I’ve worked with over the
years.
I’ve always been one to constantly question things, a trait I believe has
served me well throughout my career, and just as I encourage my staff to have
a voice, I urge you to get in touch should you need any help or have
questions about the recipes in this book.
The recipes that follow have been tested extensively and served at our bars
throughout The NoMad. Most of them can be quickly re-created at home,
while others will require a few hours of prep work.
Every cocktail recipe is written in standard U.S. units—so, ounces,
teaspoons, and the like—measurements that should be familiar to you and that
we use to build our cocktails every single day. A section of basics, which
includes syrups and infusions, follows the cocktail recipes. You will note that
the ingredients in those recipes are expressed in metric units, which we find
are more accurate for measuring larger quantities.
At The NoMad, our menus change with the seasons. Each menu features
somewhere around 50 cocktails. We couldn’t feature every recipe we’ve ever
created in this book, so we chose more than 225 of our favorites and
organized them the same way we do on our menu: Apéritifs, Light Spirited,
Dark Spirited, Classics, and Soft Cocktails. Apéritifs are cocktails that are
lower in alcohol content; their base is usually Champagne, beer, sherry, wine,
or liqueurs. Light Spirited cocktails involve a base spirit that is not aged in oak
(so vodka, gin, and the like), whereas Dark Spirited cocktails’ base spirit is
aged in oak (whiskey, Scotch, aged tequilas). The Classics chapter includes
some less common, but historical recipes, as well as modern-day
interpretations. Cocktail purists might argue that we take liberties with our
“classics,” and it’s true that we do often modify the original source material.
But any tweak we might make—such as changing a ratio or swapping or
adding in more contemporary ingredients—is done to achieve what we
believe is a more balanced drink. Soft Cocktails do not contain alcohol, but
they are drinks in which we invest as much care and thought as we do in our
cocktails to ensure all guests have something delicious to enjoy. The Basics
chapter includes all the syrups and infusions you will need to create our
recipes, as well as other building blocks for our cocktails.
You may notice that our recipes list ingredients in a different order than
many other cocktail books do. We list in the order in which the ingredients
should be added to the mixing vessel, and from smallest volume to largest (see
Building Drinks, this page, for our rationale). However, we also note the
primary ingredients for each cocktail beneath each recipe title, with the most
distinctive ingredients listed first, to help you better understand each cocktail
at a glance.
Unless otherwise stated, we rely on the following rules:
All juice is fresh and double-strained
Butter is unsalted
Cream is heavy
Eggs are extra-large and organic
Herbs are fresh
Milk is whole
Salt is kosher
Sugar is granulated
And as I mentioned before, if at any point you have a question about a
recipe or an ingredient, or want to talk cocktails or just say hello, please send
u
s
a
n
e
m
a
i
l
a
t
c
o
c
k
t
a
i
l
b
o
o
k
@
t
h
e
n
o
m
a
d
h
o
t
e
l.c
o
m. W
e
a
r
e
h
e
r
e
t
o
h
e
l
p.
SERVICE MANUAL
The bar at The NoMad is a bit different than most. We are in a restaurant in a
hotel, open twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, fifty-two weeks a
year. And unlike many great cocktail bars around the country, every day we
cater to guests who may not have walked into our building with the intention
of enjoying a craft cocktail. It’s for that reason that we choose to have a vast
and diverse selection of drinks: some that may be classified as crowd-pleasers,
others that are more adventurous, and some that may simply be called
bartender drinks. But it’s important to us that each individual drink be not
only delicious and made to the highest standard, but that it also tell a story,
whether that story is of seasonality, time and place, or sensory memory.
CREATING A COCKTAIL
When setting out to create new cocktails, many people jump in too quickly
and try to mix together ingredients before they’ve developed an understanding
of the basics. You might be able to come up with a couple amazing cocktails
with this approach, but it’s not a sustainable method. First, you need to
understand the intricacies of the ingredients—the flavors, and how they
interact together—and this is only accomplished through research (and recipe
testing). I recommend that new cocktail developers start by tasting through
the classics, and using them as building blocks. Even today I find myself
returning to the classics, as well as cocktails I developed earlier in my career,
in order to improve upon them.
You may also think that adding additional ingredients to a drink is a good
way to improve and balance a cocktail—but I’d argue it’s better to streamline
ingredients to achieve a more focused drink. For instance, do you need to use
multiple amari in a drink, or will using one achieve the same result? You may
be able to balance a twelve-ingredient cocktail, but can you really taste all of
those components? Would a cocktail with four ingredients taste just as great?
Creating a cocktail requires an endgame; you should have a goal in mind
before you even start measuring out your ingredients. For instance, an oatmeal
cookie was the inspiration for the V.O.C. (this page). I also love mulled cider,
and that led to the creation of the Mott and Mulberry (this page). Bottom
line: Find your inspiration before you begin, whether it is an existing recipe
such as a Sazerac, or a sensory memory you want to re-create.
Every cocktail has five base elements: the base spirit, sweetener, acid, bitter
component, and dilution through water or ice. The easiest way to modify a
cocktail is to change one of those ingredients at a time and test the result.
(Note that some ingredients affect multiple base elements at a time, such as
Champagne, apéritif liqueurs, herbal liqueurs, and sherries.) For example, our
house recipe for a Manhattan calls for 2 dashes of Angostura bitters, 1 ounce
of Carpano Antica Formula sweet vermouth, and 2 ounces of Rittenhouse
bonded 100-proof rye whiskey, but many people ask for a Manhattan made
with Old Overholt rye whiskey, which is 80 proof. Not only is the alcohol
content different, but the flavors of the Old Overholt are more acidic and less
woody than the Rittenhouse. So when creating a Manhattan with Old
Overholt, we modify all the components to account for the differences,
resulting in 4 dashes of bitters, 1 ounce of the same vermouth, but only 2½
ounces of the rye.
There are some instances when adding ingredients will improve upon a
cocktail. I enjoy experimenting with multiple base spirits instead of one, a
technique that is often used in tiki cocktails, and referred to as “split bases.”
Doing this allows you to achieve a flavor profile that may not exist in one
product. I am especially fond of combining liquors that seem as if they would
not play well together. For example, aquavit and Islay Scotch as seen in the
North Sea Oil (this page), rum and rye whiskey used in the Brown Sugar (this
page), or tequila and sherry, the base for the Paint it Black (this page).
Sweeteners help balance acidity, bitterness, spice, and smokiness, and they
can affect viscosity and mouthfeel. As you see in the Basics section, not all
sweeteners have the same brix, which simply refers to the quantity of sugar in
a liquid, nor do these sugars have the same flavor. If you take granulated,
demerara, and muscovado sugars and make three simple syrups based on the
same ratio, each one will have a different brix measurement, as well as varying
characteristics. A basic daiquiri is made with 2 ounces of white rum, 1 ounce
of lime juice, and ¾ ounce cane syrup (made in a 2:1 ratio with evaporated
cane sugar). If we were to substitute a simple syrup made with granulated
white sugar, we would change the recipe to follow a 2, ¾, and ¾ ratio of base
spirit, citrus, and sweetener to achieve balance.
Not all citrus is the same, but the method for juicing it is. Be careful not to
press down on the citrus too hard, as it will release bitterness within the pith
and impact the flavor. Note that lemon and lime juice are not substitutes for
one another, so when creating cocktails, I urge you to play with both and see
how they differ. Oranges and grapefruits tend to be less acidic and have higher
sugar content than lemons and limes, but again, they are not interchangeable.
There is an eighty-page service manual given to all new bartenders at The
NoMad that goes into great detail about our methods, practices, and beliefs
when it comes to making cocktails. I’m going to spare you all that extra
reading and focus here on the areas that I believe make our cocktail program
unique—the ingredients, tools, and techniques that distinguish our bar from
others.
INGREDIENTS
In cocktails, just as in cooking, your dish or drink is only as good as your
worst ingredient. In creating our recipes, we choose the spirit that works
harmoniously with the other ingredients. This does not necessarily mean that
the most expensive spirit is the right one. The price of a bottle of liquor is not
always a guarantee of its quality, which is why I insist that every new staff
member taste and analyze all the spirits we work with. Within each individual
category of spirits, you need to take into account not only taste but also proof,
because the proof of the spirit will affect the balance of the drink. You may be
tempted to substitute your favorite spirit for the one listed in the recipe. If you
do, take note of how the drink may have changed (its flavors and texture) and
adjust accordingly to achieve the perfect balance. The same goes for all other
ingredients listed.
GARNISHES
There are many different types of garnishes and even more methods of
preparing them. We prefer to use fresh, organic, unwaxed fruits, vegetables,
and herbs that are all washed and dried prior to preparing them as garnishes.
All of our garnishes have a purpose, adding either flavors or aromas to
complement the cocktail. Aesthetics are also important when thinking of
garnishes, as your cocktails should always be photo-ready.
You may notice that our garnishes are more labor-intensive than others you
come across. We prepare the majority of our garnishes before service to
ensure quality and save time, due to the high volume of cocktails that we
serve nightly.
Citrus Twist
Most bars use a vegetable peeler to cut their twists; at The NoMad we prefer a
paring knife. This allows us to retain a small layer of pith, which extends the
life of the twist, enabling us to prepare garnishes in advance of a busy service.
To prepare a twist, first cut the ends of the fruit. Then start from the very top
of one end and, following the shape of the fruit, cut all the way down to the
other end. At this point, the twist should be about an inch wide. Clean up the
twist by removing excess pith, leaving a minimal layer that is almost
translucent (the more pith you leave on, the more unwanted bitterness your
twist will bring to the cocktail). Cut the twist lengthwise and widthwise to
clean up the edges. When expressing the oils from a twist, hold the twist
between both index fingers and thumbs, about 6 inches above and 2 inches
away from the drink to ensure that the oils evenly disperse over the cocktail.
With the skin side of the twist facing toward the cocktail, squeeze, then wipe
the twist around the edge of the glass and place it skin side up inside the
cocktail when finished.
Flamed Twist
Flaming a twist caramelizes the citrus oils, which changes the aromas and
flavors of the garnish before you express it over a cocktail. To garnish with a
flamed twist, strike a match away from the cocktail so that the drink does not
smell of sulfur. Use the lit match to warm both sides of a citrus peel. Then
hold the match in one hand and the peel between the index finger and thumb
of the other hand. Be sure to hold both about 6 inches from the cocktail, with
the match between the peel and the glass. Quickly express the oils from the
peel so that they ignite over the drink.


Horse’s Neck
This is a twist that is cut around the entire piece of fruit. Follow the same
steps, but start horizontally from the top and cut around the fruit in a
corkscrew shape, being careful not to cut the twist until you reach the bottom
of the fruit. This is a difficult garnish to prepare; it may take five or six
attempts before you get it right, but it adds a lot visually to a drink.
Mint Plouche
A plouche is a collection of three or four mint tops, cleaned up and put
together to resemble a flower (think carnation). We always smack the mint
against our palms before placing it into the cocktail in order to release its
aromatics.
Wheels and Half-Wheels
A wheel is a slice of citrus and a half-wheel is half a slice of citrus. Be sure to
remove all seeds and cut your wheels the same exact width (approximately ¼
inch; we use a mandoline to prepare ours).
Cucumber Slice and Whole-Length Cucumber Slice
We use Japanese cucumbers, which have fewer seeds and tend to be uniform
in width. Two types of cucumber garnishes are used at the bar: a disk-shaped
slice, and a longer lengthwise slice that we use to wrap inside a drink (like a
cucumber horse’s neck). Both are sliced ⅛ inch thick, and we leave the
cucumbers unpeeled.
Sugar and Salt Rims
To rim a glass with sugar or salt, moisten the top inch of the outer rim of a
chilled glass, and gently roll the glass in sugar or salt. Use the corner of a
folded cocktail napkin to make the sugar or salt a consistent thickness around
the glass. Be sure to remove any sugar or salt from the inside of the glass.
Mound or Dome of Crushed Ice
This is less a garnish than part of the structure of certain drinks, such as juleps,
that are brimming with crushed ice. To mound ice atop a cocktail, pack
crushed ice into a julep strainer. Flip the strainer over the top of the glass and
press the ice dome down to create a mounded ice dome up over the rim.
Floating
This is the process of adding a liquid ingredient on top of a cocktail with the
purpose of slowly introducing a new flavor and adding visual appeal. The
floating liquid will integrate as time passes, allowing for a cocktail to further
develop. Be sure to pour the liquid slowly and as close to the top of the
cocktail as possible.
TOOLS
In the recipes in this book, we list the specific tools we use to execute each
drink at the restaurant. That being said, bartenders, much like chefs and
carpenters, develop a specific relationship to their tools, and what may be the
best spoon to me may be junk to another. You do not need an arsenal of
fancy bar tools to execute a great cocktail—I’ve improvised in foreign
situations and have used a straw as a spoon, or water bottle as a cocktail tin.
However, if you want to accurately and consistently create the cocktails in this
book, I encourage you to seek out all of the following tools. These are the
items you shouldn’t compromise on.
Jiggers
Every single bartender on staff uses them; they are the best way to maintain
consistency and precision in measurement. We prefer Cocktail Kingdom’s
Japanese-style jiggers, which are slightly taller than other jiggers and, I find,
more precise. When measuring ingredients, be sure to always hold your jigger
to the side of the mixing glass (rather than over it) to prevent overflow from
falling into the cocktail.
Barspoons
These are not the most accurate means of measurement, but can be useful for
small amounts of liquid or dry ingredients. For consistency, use the same
brand and style of spoon every time.
Dasher Bottles
Many cocktail recipes call for a “dash” of something, most often bitters. This
is a vague form of measurement since each brand of bitters has a different top
with a different-size aperture. The volume of the liquid in the bottle will also
affect your measurements; bottles that are too full or those that are nearly
empty may release less liquid. The best way to ensure consistency is to
standardize your dasher bottles. We use Japanese dasher bottles from Cocktail
Kingdom with reusable metal screw caps. The Japanese dasher tops are
significantly smaller than most bitters brands’; one dash from a normal bottle
will be equivalent to three dashes in these bottles if you use a quick short
dashing style, two if you use a longer dashing style. In this book, we’ll
consider “1 dash” to come from a Japanese bitters dasher.
Atomizers
We use atomizers—similar to a spray bottle used for perfume—to evenly
distribute a small amount of a specific spirit or liqueur over the surface of a
drink or to rinse a glass with a spirit or liqueur before the cocktail is strained
into it. While this tool is not necessary, we find that it minimizes waste
because it uses less product than pouring a small amount into a glass, and we
recommend those available at specialtybottle.com.
iSi Canister with CO2
(soda) and N2O (cream) Chargers
The most common use for these canisters is to produce creams, foams, and
carbonated drinks, but at the bar we’ve found this tool extremely useful for
making rapid infusions. Of course, there are other ways to infuse a liquid with
flavors and aromatics (and indeed, we don’t think the iSi siphon method is
ideal for every infusion); however, we believe it is the correct method for
herbs and other bitter components that would typically become very tannic or
take a long time to macerate. The process is this: When you charge an iSi
canister with N2O (nitrous oxide), the gas penetrates the solid particles of the
flavoring agent. Later, when you vent the canister, the N2O is dispersed
through the liquid, infusing it with the flavoring agent. Practically speaking,
you’ll need an iSi cream canister and two N2O chargers per infusion. Place
the desired flavoring agent as well as the liquid to be infused into the canister.
Seal the canister and charge it with two N2O chargers, shaking it between
each charge. Allow to sit for about 5 minutes. Then vent the canister by
squeezing the handle until all the gas escapes. (Be sure to put a container
underneath the nozzle while you’re venting it in order to catch any liquid that
comes out.) Open the canister and allow it to sit until the liquid stops
bubbling—the bubbles indicate that the infusion is still in process. Strain the
liquid and start making cocktails with the infusion.
Strainers
At The NoMad we use only hawthorne strainers; our preferred brand is
Koriko from Cocktail Kingdom. Many people prefer to use a julep strainer for
stirred drinks, but we find them too small for the Japanese-style mixing glasses
that we use. We double-strain all of our shaken cocktails through a conical
fine-mesh strainer, and prefer to use the Coco Strainer from Cocktail
Kingdom.
In addition to jiggers, barspoons, dasher bottles, and iSi canister and chargers,
you’ll need basic bar supplies such as swizzles, mixing glasses, citrus juicers,
peelers, knives, and cocktail tins for the recipes in this book. Each bartender
has his or her favorites; I suggest you use those you are most comfortable
with.




GLASSWARE
Each recipe in this book recommends a particular glass. I’m not suggesting
you go out and purchase dozens of different glasses in various shapes and sizes,
but it’s true that the glass in which your cocktail is served will impact its
aroma and flavor. We stock the following glasses at The NoMad: Nick and
Nora (6 ounces), tulip (6 ounces), fortified (7 ounces), hot-cocktail (8 ounces),
fizz (9 ounces), single rocks (9½ ounces), coupe (9¾ ounces), cobbler (11½
ounces), highball (12 ounces), Pilsner (12 ounces), double rocks (14 ounces),
Belgian (15 ounces), rooster cup or tiki mug (18 ounces), snifter (19 ounces),
and explosion vessel (192 ounces).
ICE
It’s important to understand that not all ice is created equal. What may work
for one drink could vastly dilute another. There are entire essays devoted to
the topic of ice in cocktails, but I’ll only dive into what I believe to be true
and essential. Ice in cocktails serves two basic purposes: to chill a drink, and to
dilute a drink. The amount of dilution, or the degree to which you chill a
drink, depends on the size and type of ice you use. At The NoMad we use
three different sizes of ice: Kold Draft (a clear, solid 1¼-inch cube made in a
Kold Draft brand machine); Scotsman pellet ice (crushed ice made in a
Scotsman brand machine); and 2-inch cubes, which are either made in molds
or purchased from a specialty ice store.
There are also two different types of ice: wet and dry. For our purposes,
“dry ice” does not refer to solid carbon dioxide—rather, we use “dry” to
describe ice that is sticky to the touch, as it would be if you had just pulled it
from the freezer. Wet ice, by contrast, is moist when you touch it, due to the
water that adheres to the surface. Both types of ice are okay, but I prefer to
use drier ice for shaking, as it allows us to shake the cocktail for a longer
period of time, incorporating more air, and achieving a frothier head. You can
use either ice for stirring, but wet ice will speed the process, allowing you to
more quickly achieve the sought-after result.
At home, of course, I don’t expect you to have access to a Kold Draft or
Scotsman ice machine. But each type of ice does serve a different purpose, so I
encourage you to seek out ice molds that mirror the different shapes and sizes
we use. Use purified water, as it will affect the flavor of your drink. Also,
know that ice will absorb the odors around it, so make sure that your freezer
is odor-free when you’re making your ice—you wouldn’t want last night’s
chicken parm leftovers flavoring your daiquiri. In the recipes, you’ll note that
I call for shaking and stirring cocktails over 1¼-inch cubes, which might be
difficult if you’re relying on ice molds. Realistically, you can use any type of
ice for shaking and stirring drinks—reserve the good stuff for serving—but be
mindful of the fact that variable sizes of ice will affect the dilution of your
cocktail.
1¼-inch Ice Cubes
Ours come from a Kold Draft machine; however, you can buy 1¼-inch
silicone molds online and in stores. I recommend Tovolo brand. We use 1¼-
inch cubes for shaking cocktails, and for serving in highball or small rocks
glasses.
2-Inch Ice Cubes
Again, I recommend Tovolo brand silicone molds for these. Use this type of
ice for shaking egg white or cream drinks, as it helps produce a more frothy
head. It is also recommended for serving tequila, rum, whiskey, and amaro on
the rocks, or in stirred cocktails served in anything larger than a single rocks
glass.
Crushed Ice
At home you can simply use an ice crusher, Lewis bag (or other clean canvas
sack) and mallet, or my favorite, a Snoopy sno-cone maker. If you’re crushing
your ice by hand, be sure to dry it off afterward with a paper towel or spin it
in a salad spinner. This will ensure you do not add extra, unwanted dilution to
your beverages. Use this type of ice for juleps, crustas, mojitos, caipirinhas,
smashes, mai tais, or zombies.
TECHNIQUES
There are many different ways to make a cocktail, and each technique serves a
specific purpose. Shaking is different than stirring, and there is a reason why
we muddle some drinks but not others. Here are some important guidelines to
help you in creating just about any cocktail.
Shaking and Stirring
One of the most basic questions I’m often asked is the difference between
shaking and stirring a drink. Both methods accomplish three things: mixing of
the ingredients, dilution through ice, and chilling of the drink. The main
difference is that shaking aerates the cocktail, creating a more frothy texture
and changing its appearance. Aeration also adds perceived dilution because the
ingredients are less concentrated. Stirring, by contrast, accomplishes mixing,
dilution, and chilling, but not aeration.
SHAKING GUIDELINES
Most cocktails that have juice, egg, milk, or cream are shaken—often dry
shaken, or shaken without ice. These ingredients have significantly
different densities than most spirits, so cocktails that include them require
more energy in order to be made homogeneous—think of combining oil
and water. If you stir the ingredients, they stay separated, but if you shake
it vigorously, they become one.
For shaking cocktails, we use a Boston or two-piece tin. Build all shaken
cocktails in the smaller tin. Fill it with ice and then place the larger tin
over the top. Shake with the smaller tin facing you and the larger tin
facing away from you to make sure that any liquid that escapes from the
seal does not hit your guests.
To break the seal on the tins, push the smaller tin away from the initial
point of separation. Never hit the tins against any surface as it may
damage them.
STIRRING GUIDELINES
Assess your ice before stirring. If the ice is dry and new, you may want to
crack a few cubes to increase the surface area of the ice; this will allow
you to reach your desired dilution and temperature more quickly. If the
ice is wet, no cracking is needed.
The term “wash line” is the point where the ice meets the liquid in the
mixing glass. In most cases, the wash line for a perfectly diluted cocktail
should fall just below the top of the ice. Stirring drinks that are going on
the rocks should be underdiluted (the wash line should be lower).
Always taste your drinks while stirring. It’s the only way to gauge proper
dilution and to guarantee you’ve made the drink correctly. Be sure to use
a brand-new straw or clean barspoon every time you taste in order not to
contaminate the beverage.
Swizzling and Whipping
Swizzling involves using a specific tool (a swizzle stick or bois lélé branch) to
stir a drink that is served over crushed ice in its serving glass. In fact, swizzling
is most like shaking in that mixing, chilling, dilution, and aeration are
accomplished. The majority of the dilution happens quickly due to the water
adhered to the crushed ice, which has a larger combined surface area than
cube ice.
One main purpose of swizzling is to convert the serving glass into an
extremely cold insulator—frequent contact with the crushed ice helps the glass
quickly reach and maintain a very cold temperature.
Whipping is the process of shaking with minimal ice (we use three 1¼-inch
cubes), aerating a drink while providing limited dilution. This is done with
drinks served over crushed ice and mimics the process that occurs in swizzling.
At The NoMad we choose to whip the majority of our drinks that we might
otherwise swizzle, since swizzling takes more time, but you can use either
method at home.
Muddling
At The NoMad, we do not actually “muddle” any herbs—we gently tamp
them in whichever sweetener is used in a recipe. Muddling herbs—pressing
with a pestle or muddler—extracts tannins and other bitter, muddy flavors that
are unwanted in most cocktails. For the purposes of this book we use
“muddle” as shorthand—but in those instances you should only gently press
the herbs with your muddler.
There is no need to muddle the herbs in any cocktails that are shaken. The
ice will work as a muddler and extract all your essential oils and desired
aromas.
Straining
In the case of shaken cocktails, we always double-strain them. We place a
hawthorne strainer atop a conical fine-mesh strainer, then strain the drink
through both directly into the glass. While this is not common practice at
most other bars, we find that it improves the quality of a cocktail, removing
any small pieces of ice or other unwanted particles that may affect the texture.
BUILDING DRINKS
At home you will probably be creating one cocktail at a time, investing all of
your focus and energy on that one specific drink. At The NoMad, our staff is
shaking, stirring, and whipping numerous drinks at the same time in order to
serve the hundreds of guests we welcome on a nightly basis. The following
steps reflect how we build a round of drinks in order to maximize efficiency,
provide a high level of service, and maintain quality control while getting the
drinks out as fast as we can.
Before You Make Your Drink
Always start with the smallest-volume ingredient and build your drink up
from there. In most instances the order will be something like bitters,
sugar, citrus, and so on. The logic here is that if you start with the smaller
measurements, you leave yourself more room for error. If you make a
mistake, it’s far less painful to throw out a dash of bitters than a couple of
ounces of a spirit.
Never fill your tin or mixing glass with ice until you are ready to stir.
You may be distracted before finishing your cocktail, and the ice can
dilute your drink more than desired.
Don’t rinse out your jigger immediately after using honey, cane syrup, or
other viscous sweeteners; reuse that jigger as you build your drink to
ensure you get the full amount of sweetener into the glass.
When creating a drink with eggs, always crack the egg on a hard surface
and then add it to the larger of your tins, to ensure that you don’t get
shell in the drink. We use an egg separator, as the outside of the egg shell
can be dirty or harbor impurities.
Glassware should (almost) always be chilled. Any exceptions will be
called out in the recipe.
Step-by-Step
Here are our steps of service when building a round of drinks:
1. Pull and prepare your garnishes.
2. Build each drink in the appropriate cocktail tin or mixing vessel. If you
are building two, but no more than two, you can combine them into
one tin or mixing vessel, making sure to add more ice, and stir or shake
longer to achieve the desired dilution. If using a two-piece shaker, build
the drink in the smaller tin.
3. Retrieve your chilled glassware.
4. Dry shake (shake without ice) all cream- or egg-based cocktails.
5. Add ice and any primers (such as rinses) to your serving glassware.
6. Prepare each cocktail in order of mixing method: first swizzle, then
whip, then stir, then shake. For shaken drinks, you should always strain
into the serving glass immediately after shaking. Other drinks can be
strained or double-strained after the entire round is built.
7. If the drink calls for bitters as a finishing agent, add it now.
8. Top with any other finishing liquids, such as beer, wine, or soda, if
needed.
9. Garnish, and serve with a good attitude.
10. Clean your tools and repeat—many, many times.
11. Go for numerous shift drinks after service; I usually prefer whiskey.
ELEVEN NON-NEGOTIABLES FOR A NOMAD BARTENDER
1. Greet every guest with a warm smile and a menu upon arrival.
2. Maintain a clean and composed appearance, as a bar and as an individual.
3. Take pride in our craft by properly measuring, mixing, and garnishing
every cocktail.
4. Understand our food and beverage knowledge as true professionals.
5. Acknowledge and serve every guest, even when not in your station.
6. Label checks and assure we are accurate with all of our transactions.
7. Remember we are on stage and are here to create a welcoming
environment and to entertain.
8. Respect all our spaces, colleagues, and tools.
9. Build rounds of drinks to ensure quality, speed, and accuracy.
10. When we can, we are cleaning, labeling, marrying, and organizing the
back bar.
11. Push to be better than we were yesterday.


8TH WONDER
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A bitter highball with hints of grapefruit
Caperetif, Barolo Chinato, Elderflower Liqueur, Grapefruit, Lime
½ ounce lime juice
¾ ounce St-Germain
¾ ounce Cocchi Barolo Chinato
1½ ounces Caperetif
1 ounce Fever-Tree tonic water
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the tonic water. Fill a
highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Prime the highball glass with the tonic
water. Cover the cocktail tin and shake. Strain the cocktail into the highball
glass.
ANGELO AND ROCCO
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A bitter sour with flavors of black pepper and apples
Punt e Mes, Amaro Abano, Amontillado Sherry, Apple Cider, Lemon, Black Pepper
½ ounce Tellicherry Black Pepper Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
¾ ounce Honeycrisp apple cider
¾ ounce Luxardo Amaro Abano
1 ounce Carpano Punt e Mes vermouth
Combine all the ingredients in a cocktail tin. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and
shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into a coupe.
ANTHORA
GLASS: Cobbler
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
Amaro cobbler with cof ee and fennel
Averna, Punt e Mes, Aquavit, Coffee, Lemon
½ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Krogstad aquavit
¾ ounce Cold Brew Coffee Concentrate (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Carpano Punt e Mes vermouth
1 ounce Averna
Mint plouche, for garnish
Grapefruit twist, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnishes. Fill a
cobbler glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail
tin. Cover and whip. Strain the cocktail into the cobbler glass and top with
additional crushed ice. Garnish with the mint plouche and grapefruit twist.
BANANA STAND
GLASS: Pilsner
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A sherry cobbler with flavors of banana and chocolate
Banana-Infused Oloroso Sherry, Venezuelan Rum, Falernum, Pineapple Gomme, Brown Butter,
Chocolate, Salt
4 dashes Bitter Truth chocolate bitters
10 drops Saline Solution (this page)
½ ounce Pineapple Gomme (this page)
½ ounce Brown Butter Falernum (this page)
½ ounce Diplomático Reserva Exclusiva rum
2 ounces Banana Oloroso (this page)
72 percent bittersweet chocolate, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Fill a Pilsner
glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover
and whip. Strain the cocktail into the Pilsner glass and top with additional
crushed ice. Shave bittersweet chocolate over the top of the cocktail for
garnish.

BROKEN SPANISH
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A lower-ABV martini with vinous and herbaceous flavors
Fino Sherry, Cocchi Americano, Bénédictine, Verjus
½ ounce Bénédictine
1 ounce Fusion verjus blanc juice
1 ounce Cocchi Americano
1½ ounces Lustau Jarana fino sherry
Becherovka, as a rinse
Grapefruit twist, for garnish
In a chilled mixing glass, combine all the ingredients except the Becherovka
and garnish. Fill the mixing glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Using an
atomizer, rinse a chilled coupe with six sprays of Becherovka. Strain the
cocktail into the coupe. Express the grapefruit twist over the drink and then
drop it into the glass.
BULLINGDON CLUB CUP
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A bitter and vegetal watermelon cooler
Aperol, Rabarbaro, Watermelon, Celery, Black Pepper, Lemon, Basil, Salt
Lemon wedge, for rimming
Salt, for rimming
5 basil leaves
½ ounce Tellicherry Black Pepper Syrup (this page)
½ ounce celery juice
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Donna Rosa Rabarbaro
¾ ounce Aperol
1 ounce watermelon juice
1 ounce cold Fever-Tree tonic water, plus more to finish
Use the lemon wedge to moisten the top inch of the outer rim of a chilled
highball glass. Gently roll the highball glass in salt to rim half of the glass.
Shake off excess salt. Use the corner of a folded cocktail napkin to make the
salt a consistent thickness. Fill the highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Add
all the remaining ingredients except the tonic water to a cocktail tin. Add
three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the tin. Cover and whip vigorously. Add the tonic
water to the tin. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass using a hawthorne
strainer. Fill the glass with additional tonic water.
CARDINALE
GLASS: Highball
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Gino Pellarin
A refreshing cobbler with notes of grapefruit and ginger
Barolo Chinato, Fino Sherry, Rabarbaro Zucca Amaro, Lemon, Grapefruit, Ginger, Cucumber
2 cucumber slices, 1 for muddling and 1 for garnish
¼ ounce Spicy Ginger Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Rabarbaro Zucca amaro
½ ounce Lustau Jarana fino sherry
¾ ounce grapefruit juice
¾ ounce lemon juice
1½ ounces Cocchi Barolo Chinato
½ ounce Seagram’s club soda
In a cocktail tin, muddle a cucumber slice in the ginger syrup, then add the
remaining ingredients except the club soda and garnish. Fill a highball glass
with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch cubes to the tin. Cover and whip. Strain
the cocktail into the highball glass. Add the club soda and garnish with the
remaining cucumber slice.
CLIP JOINT CUP
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A bitter Pimm’s Cup variation
Punt e Mes, Amaro Averna, Lime, Ginger, Grapefruit, Cucumber, Tonic
2 grapefruit twists, 1 for muddling and 1 for garnish
2 cucumber slices, 1 for muddling and 1 for garnish
½ ounce Demerara Simple Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce Seagram’s club soda
¾ ounce Fever-Tree tonic water
½ ounce Ginger Lime Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lime juice
1 ounce Amaro Averna
1 ounce Carpano Punt e Mes vermouth
Mint plouche, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, muddle a grapefruit twist and a cucumber slice with the
demerara syrup. Fill a highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and prime it with
the club soda and tonic water. Add the rest of the ingredients except the
garnishes to the tin. Cover and shake. Strain the cocktail into the highball
glass. Garnish with the mint plouche and remaining cucumber slice and
grapefruit twist.

COMMON THREAD
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Julia Reingold
A lightly savory and refreshing cooler
Cocchi Americano, Chareau, Suze, Fino Sherry, Grapefruit, Lemon, Jalapeño-Infused Agave,
Absinthe
Lemon wedge, for rimming
Aleppo chile salt, for rimming
4 dashes Pernod Absinthe
½ ounce Jalapeño-Infused Agave Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce grapefruit juice
½ ounce Chareau liqueur
½ ounce Suze
¾ ounce Lustau Jarana fino sherry
1 ounce Cocchi Americano
1½ ounces Seagram’s club soda
Whole-length cucumber slice, for garnish
Use the lemon wedge to moisten the top inch of the outer rim of a chilled
highball glass. Gently roll the highball glass in chile salt to rim half of the glass.
Shake off excess salt. Use the corner of a folded cocktail napkin to make the
salt a consistent thickness. Fill the highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Add
the remaining ingredients except the club soda and garnish to a cocktail tin.
Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the tin. Cover and shake vigorously. Add 1
ounce of the club soda to the cocktail tin. Strain the cocktail into the highball
glass using a hawthorne strainer. Fill the glass with the remaining ½ ounce
club soda and garnish with the cucumber slice around the inside rim of the
glass.

CORTEZ
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Ryan Curran
A savory Champagne cocktail
Champagne, Amontillado Sherry, Lemon, Ceylon Cinnamon
¼ ounce Simple Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce Ceylon Cinnamon Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
1½ ounces Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
2 ounces Duc de Romet Champagne
Combine all the ingredients except the Champagne in a cocktail tin. Fill a
highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and add the Champagne. Fill the
cocktail tin with ice. Cover and shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the
highball glass.
CUP OF JOE
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Shaun Dunn
A Pimm’s Cup variation with cof ee, grapefruit, and vanilla
Coffee-Infused Vermouth, Amaro Abano, Grapefruit, Lemon, Cinnamon, Vanilla
¼ ounce Vanilla Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce Ceylon Cinnamon Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce grapefruit juice
1 ounce Luxardo Amaro Abano
1 ounce Coffee-Infused Dry Vermouth (this page)
1 ounce Fever-Tree tonic water
Grapefruit twist, for expressing
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the tonic water and
grapefruit twist. Fill a highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Prime the
highball glass with the tonic water. Cover the cocktail tin and shake. Strain
the cocktail into the highball glass. Express the oils of the grapefruit twist over
the drink, then discard the twist.
DANGER HAUS
GLASS: Highball
ICE: Crushed
CREATORS: Jane Danger and Pietro Collina
A bitter, cranberry-forward sherry cobbler
Fino Sherry, Suze, Grapefruit Oleo Saccharum, Cranberry, Cucumber
1 teaspoon Grapefruit Oleo Saccharum (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Cranberry Syrup (this page)
1 ounce Suze
1½ ounces Lustau Jarana fino sherry
Whole-length cucumber slice, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the garnish in a cocktail tin. Wrap the
cucumber slice around the inside of the highball glass, starting from the
bottom, and fill the glass with crushed ice. Add three 1½-inch ice cubes to the
cocktail tin. Cover and whip. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass.
FOLKLORE
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATORS: Pietro Collina and Julia Reingold
A fall-flavored shandy with cinnamon and pear
Saison Ale, Amontillado Sherry, Spiced Pear Liqueur, Lemon, Ceylon Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Cane Syrup (this page)
½ ounce St. George spiced pear liqueur
½ ounce Ceylon Cinnamon Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
3 ounces Folksbier Sif dry-hopped table beer
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the beer. Fill a highball
glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and add the beer. Fill the tin with ice. Cover and
shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass.
FRESA Y CERVESA
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A tart and vegetal shandy with flavors of strawberry
Berliner Weiss, Yellow Chartreuse, Strawberry Shrub, Jalapeño, Agave, Lemon
Cucumber slice, for muddling, plus whole-length cucumber slice, for garnish
½ ounce yellow Chartreuse
½ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Strawberry Pickling Liquid (this page)
¾ ounce Jalapeño-Infused Agave Syrup (this page)
2 ounces Evil Twin Nomader Weisse
In a cocktail tin, muddle a cucumber slice and combine the remaining
ingredients except the beer and garnish. Wrap the cucumber garnish around
the inside of a highball glass, starting from the bottom. Fill the glass with 1¼-
inch ice cubes and add the beer. Add ice to the tin. Cover and shake
vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass.
HAYMARKET
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A bitter and refreshing shandy
Pale Ale, Suze, Lemon, Cucumber
2 cucumber slices, 1 for muddling and 1 for garnish, plus whole-length cucumber slice, for
garnish
¾ ounce Simple Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Suze
2 ounces Two Brothers pale ale
In a cocktail tin, muddle a cucumber slice and combine the remaining
ingredients except the beer and the garnish. Wrap the whole-length cucumber
garnish around the inside of a highball glass, starting from the bottom. Fill the
glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and add the beer. Fill the tin with ice. Cover and
shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass and garnish with
the remaining cucumber slice.

HOT BROTH
GLASS: Hot-cocktail
ICE: None
CREATOR: Shaun Dunn
A savory boozy brodo with an anise undertone
Amontillado Sherry, Absinthe, Spiced Tomato Water, Chicken Jus
6 dashes Pernod Absinthe
1 teaspoon Chicken Jus (this page)
1½ ounces Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
5 ounces Spiced Tomato Water (this page)
Fill a hot-cocktail glass with hot water in order to heat it. In a small saucepan,
combine all the ingredients and warm over medium heat until the cocktail
comes to a simmer. Discard the hot water in the cocktail glass, then pour in
the cocktail.
HOWIE IN THE JUNGLE
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Nathan O’Neill
A bitter sling with cherry and pineapple
Zucca, Aperol, Cherry Heering, Pineapple, Lime
1 teaspoon Passionfruit Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Cherry Heering
Scant ¾ ounce lime juice
¾ ounce pineapple juice
¾ ounce Aperol
1½ ounces Rabarbaro Zucca amaro
1 ounce Seagram’s club soda
Orange half-wheel, for garnish
3 mint sprigs, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the club soda and
garnishes. Fill a highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the cocktail tin with
1¼-inch ice cubes. Cover and shake vigorously. Add the club soda to the
cocktail tin. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass. Skewer the orange halfwheel through the ends, place the mint sprigs through the center, and garnish
the cocktail.
INTO THE WOODS
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A light sour with maple and pine
Chambery Blanc Vermouth, Douglas Fir Liqueur, Maple Syrup, Lemon, Egg White
1 egg white
½ ounce Grade A maple syrup
¾ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Brovo Douglas Fir liqueur
1½ ounces Dolin de Chambery Blanc vermouth
Rosemary sprig, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Seal the tin
and dry shake to emulsify the egg white into the cocktail. Carefully open the
tin and fill with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Seal it again and shake vigorously. Strain
the cocktail into a chilled coupe using a hawthorne strainer and a fine tea
strainer. Garnish with the sprig of rosemary.
JANE STANLEY
GLASS: Cobbler
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A bitter sour with orange
Amontillado Sherry, Amaro Ciociaro, Orange, Lemon
3 orange half-wheels, 1 for muddling and 2 for garnish
Scant ½ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Amaro Ciociaro
1½ ounces Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
In a cocktail tin, muddle an orange half-wheel, then add the remaining
ingredients except the garnish. Fill a cobbler glass with crushed ice. Add three
1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and whip. Strain the cocktail into
the cobbler glass and garnish with the remaining orange half-wheels.
JOE DANGER
GLASS: Pilsner
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Jane Danger
A vermouth sour with cof ee and grapefruit
Sweet Vermouth, Coffee-Infused Dry Vermouth, Pale Cream Sherry, Lemon, Angostura Bitters
4 dashes Angostura bitters
½ ounce Simple Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Coffee-Infused Dry Vermouth (this page)
¾ ounce Alvear Pale cream sherry
¾ ounce Carpano Antica Formula sweet vermouth
¾ ounce Lustau Vermut Rojo vermouth
Grapefruit twist, for garnish
Mint plouche, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the garnishes in a cocktail tin. Fill a Pilsner
glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover
and whip. Strain the cocktail into the Pilsner glass and top with additional
crushed ice. Express the oils of the grapefruit twist over the top of the drink.
Garnish with the mint plouche and the expressed grapefruit twist.

MA CHERIE
GLASS: Highball
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A lightly savory and refreshing cooler
Fino Sherry, Green Chartreuse, Velvet Falernum, Lime, Cucumber, Celery, Salt, Pineapple
Gomme
1-inch piece celery, for muddling
10 drops Saline Solution (this page)
¼ ounce green Chartreuse
¼ ounce John D. Taylor’s Velvet Falernum
½ ounce Pineapple Gomme (this page)
½ ounce lime juice
2½ ounces Lustau Jarana fino sherry
Whole-length cucumber slice, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, muddle the celery, then combine all the remaining
ingredients except the garnish. Wrap the cucumber garnish around the inside
of a highball glass, starting from the bottom. Fill the highball glass with
crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and whip.
Strain the cocktail into the highball glass.
MIDNIGHT BRAMBLE
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A refreshing sour with blackberries
Fino Sherry, Bonal, Crème de Mûre, Lemon, Blackberries
Scant ½ ounce Simple Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Bonal
1 ounce Lustau Jarana fino sherry
5 medium blackberries, for garnish
½ ounce Massenez Crème de Mûre, to finish
Combine all the ingredients except the blackberries and crème de mûre in a
cocktail tin. Place the blackberries on the bottom of a double rocks glass and
fill the glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch cubes to the cocktail tin.
Cover and whip. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass. Fill the glass
with more crushed ice and make a mound of crushed ice up over the rim of
the glass. Pour the crème de mûre over the top of the dome.
MONFERRATO
GLASS: Champagne flute
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A Champagne cocktail with bitter orange notes
Champagne, Cocchi Americano, Triple Sec, Peychaud’s Bitters, Angostura Bitters
6 dashes Angostura bitters
6 dashes Peychaud’s bitters
½ ounce Combier triple sec
1 ounce Cocchi Americano
2 ounces Duc de Romet Champagne
Orange twist, for expressing
Combine all the ingredients except the Champagne and orange twist in a
mixing glass. Fill the mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into a
Champagne flute and top with Champagne. Express the oils of the orange
twist over the glass, then rub the twist on the rim of the glass and discard the
twist.

ON THE VINE
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A savory and tart sour full of tomato flavor
Fino Sherry, Amontillado Sherry, Tomato Water, Lemon, White Balsamic Vinegar, Salt
15 drops Saline Solution (this page)
Scant ½ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
1 ounce Spiced Tomato Water (this page)
2 ounces Lustau Jarana fino sherry
3 dashes white balsamic vinegar
½ ounce lemon juice
Lemon thyme sprig, for garnish
Using an iSi canister (see this page), carbonate the saline solution, cane syrup,
amontillado sherry, tomato water, and fino sherry. Place a 2-inch ice cube in a
double rocks glass. Add the vinegar, lemon juice, and 4 ounces of the
carbonated liquid to the rocks glass and stir gently for 5 seconds. Garnish with
the sprig of lemon thyme.
SEOUL MATE
GLASS: Highball
ICE: Crushed
CREATORS: Leo Robitschek and Pietro Collina
A sherry cobbler with peach and almond
Amontillado Sherry, Vermouth di Torino, Crème de Pêche, Orgeat, Lemon
½ ounce Massenez Crème de Pêche
½ ounce Orgeat (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Cocchi Vermouth di Torino
2 ounces Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
Lemon wheel, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Fill a highball
glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover
and whip. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass and top with additional
crushed ice. Garnish with the lemon wheel.
SHIITAKE DIRTY TO ME
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Shaun Dunn
A smoky and umami-forward Old-Fashioned
Amontillado Sherry, Mushroom Broth, Squash, Honey, Verjus, Coffee, Angostura Bitters
8 dashes Coffee-Infused Angostura Bitters (this page)
1 teaspoon Fusion verjus blanc juice
¼ ounce Honey Syrup (this page)
Scant ½ ounce Kabocha Squash Syrup (this page)
1 ounce Mushroom Broth (this page)
1½ ounces Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
Laphroaig 10-Year Scotch, to finish
In a double rocks glass, combine all the ingredients except the Scotch. Add a
2-inch ice cube and stir for 5 seconds. Using an atomizer, top the double
rocks glass with six sprays of Scotch.
SHUTTLECOCK
GLASS: Pilsner
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A sangria variation with bitter cherry and mint
Cabernet Franc, Moscatel Sherry, Maraschino Liqueur, Yellow Chartreuse, Lemon, Blackberries,
Mint, Orange
5 mint leaves, for muddling
4 blackberries, 3 for muddling and 1 for garnish
Orange half-wheel, for muddling, plus orange wheel, for garnish
½ ounce Luxardo Maraschino liqueur
½ ounce Luxardo Amaro Abano
½ ounce yellow Chartreuse
¾ ounce Lustau Emelín Moscatel sherry
¾ ounce lemon juice
1½ ounces Cabernet Franc
½ ounce Seagram’s club soda, to finish
Mint plouche, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, muddle the mint leaves, three of the blackberries, and the
orange half-wheel, then add the remaining ingredients except the club soda
and garnishes. Fill a Pilsner glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice
cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and whip. Strain the cocktail into the Pilsner
glass and add the club soda. Skewer the remaining orange wheel and
blackberry to create a flag, then garnish with the mint plouche and the
orange-blackberry flag.

SIPPY CUP
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A bitter cup with ginger and lime
Amaro Averna, Vermouth de Torino, Ginger, Lime
¾ ounce Spicy Ginger Syrup (this page)
1 ounce lime juice
1 ounce Cocchi Vermouth di Torino
1½ ounces Amaro Averna
2 dashes Angostura bitters, to finish
1 ounce Seagram’s club soda, to finish
Orange half-wheel, for garnish
3 mint sprigs, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine the ginger syrup, lime juice, vermouth, and amaro.
Fill a highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the cocktail tin with ice.
Cover and shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass. Add
the Angostura bitters to the top of the cocktail and top with the club soda.
Skewer the orange half-wheel through the ends and place the mint sprigs
through the center, then garnish the cocktail with the orange-mint flag.

SUMMER OF YES
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A shandy with elderflower and jalapeño
Berliner Weisse, Elderflower Liqueur, Rhubarb Shrub, Agave, Lemon, Jalapeño, Cucumber, Salt
Cucumber slice, for muddling
½ ounce Jalapeño-Infused Agave Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce Rhubarb Shrub (this page)
1 ounce St-Germain
3 ounces Evil Twin Nomader Weisse
Whole-length rhubarb slice, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, muddle the cucumber slice, then add the remaining
ingredients except the beer and garnish. Wrap the rhubarb garnish around the
inside of a highball glass, starting from the bottom. Fill the glass with 1¼-inch
ice cubes and add the beer. Add 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover
and shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass.
SUPERBAS
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A herbaceous beer cocktail
Pilsner, Suze, Velvet Falernum, Dill, Lime
½ ounce Dill Syrup (this page)
½ ounce John D. Taylor’s Velvet Falernum
¾ ounce lime juice
1 ounce Suze
2 ounces Einbecker Pilsner
Grapefruit twist, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the beer and garnish in a cocktail tin. Fill a
highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and add the beer. Fill the tin with ice.
Cover and shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass and
express the oils of the grapefruit twist over the glass. Rub the twist on the rim
of the glass and drop it into the glass, leaving the flesh side up.
VELVET COBBLER
GLASS: Cobbler
ICE: Crushed
CREATORS: Leo Robitschek and Eamon Rockey
A citrus-forward summer cobbler
Amontillado Sherry, Riesling Spätlese, Lemon Verbena
½ ounce Lemon Verbena Syrup (this page)
1½ ounces Riesling Spätlese
2 ounces Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
Lemon wheel, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the garnish in a cocktail tin. Fill a cobbler
glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the tin. Cover and
whip. Strain the cocktail into the cobbler glass and garnish with the lemon
wheel.


18TH PARALLEL
GLASS: Snifter
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Matt Chavez
A fruity and vegetal tiki cocktail with guava
Oaxacan Rum, Añejo Tequila, Amaro Nonino, Guava, Passionfruit, Pineapple, Cream, Lime,
Vanilla, Mole Bitters
1 orange slice
4 dashes Bittermens Xocolatl Mole bitters
¼ ounce heavy cream
¼ ounce Passionfruit Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce Vanilla Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Guava Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Amaro Nonino Quintessentia
½ ounce lime juice
¾ ounce pineapple juice
¾ ounce Siembra Azul añejo tequila
¾ ounce Paranubes Oaxacan rum
3 pineapple fronds, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Fill a snifter
with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and
whip. Strain the cocktail into the snifter and top with additional crushed ice.
Garnish with the pineapple fronds.
ALL BETZ ARE OFF
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Jim Betz
A gin Old-Fashioned with celery and black pepper
London Dry Gin, Black Pepper, Demerara, Celery Bitters, Grapefruit Bitters
2 dashes Bitter Truth grapefruit bitters
4 dashes Bitter Truth celery bitters
Heavy ¼ ounce Tellicherry Black Pepper Syrup (this page)
2 ounces Tanqueray 10 gin
Lemon twist, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the garnish in a mixing glass. Place a 2-
inch ice cube in a double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with ice and stir.
Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass and express the oils of the lemon
twist over the glass. Rub the twist on the rim of the glass and drop it into the
glass, leaving the flesh side up.
AMELIA
GLASS: Fizz
ICE: None
CREATOR: Cristian Rodriguez
A pisco sour variation with chicha morada
Pisco Quebranta, Aged Cachaça, Cream Sherry, Salers, Purple Corn, Lime, Smoked Chili Bitters,
Egg White
1 egg white
6 dashes Hella Smoked Chili bitters
¼ ounce Salers Gentiane
½ ounce Lustau East India Solera cream sherry
½ ounce Avuá Amburana cachaça
¾ ounce lime juice
1 ounce Purple Corn Syrup (this page)
1 ounce Macchu Pisco
Sombra mezcal, to finish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the mezcal. Seal and dry
shake to emulsify the egg white into the cocktail. Carefully open the tin and
fill with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Seal it again and shake vigorously. Strain the
cocktail into a chilled fizz glass using a hawthorne strainer and a fine tea
strainer. Using an atomizer, top with six sprays of mezcal.
ARGYLE
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Jessica Gonzalez
A Manhattan variation with caraway and chocolate
Aged Aquavit, Marseilles Dry Vermouth, Amaro Meletti, Maraschino, Angostura Bitters
1 dash Angostura bitters
1 teaspoon Luxardo Maraschino liqueur
½ ounce Amaro Meletti
¾ ounce Noilly Prat Extra Dry vermouth
1½ ounces Linie aquavit
Lemon twist, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the garnish in a mixing glass. Fill the glass
with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into a coupe and express the oils of the
lemon twist over the glass. Rub the twist on the rim of the glass and drop it
into the glass, leaving the flesh side up.
AVO
GLASS: Pilsner
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A spicy and savory caipirinha
Cachaça, Amaro Nonino, Aquavit, Crème de Cacao, Jalapeño, Lemon, Orange Bitters
4 dashes House Orange Bitters (this page)
½ ounce Simple Syrup (this page)
½ ounce De Kuyper crème de cacao
¾ ounce Krogstad aquavit
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Amaro Nonino Quintessentia
¾ ounce Spicy Avuá Cachaça (this page)
Cacao powder, for garnish
Mint plouche, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnishes. Fill a Pilsner
glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the tin. Cover and
whip. Strain the cocktail into the Pilsner glass and top with additional crushed
ice. Garnish with cacao powder and the mint plouche.
BEEKEEPER
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Lacy Hawkins
A smoky, floral gin sour
Plymouth Gin, Elderflower Liqueur, Islay Scotch, Honey, Lemon, Orange Bitters, Egg White
1 dash House Orange Bitters (this page)
¼ ounce Caol Ila 12-Year Islay Scotch
¼ ounce St-Germain
½ ounce Honey Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
1½ ounces Plymouth gin
1 egg white
Combine all the ingredients except the egg white in a cocktail tin. Add the
egg white to the tin, cover, and dry shake to emulsify the egg white into the
cocktail. Fill the tin with ice, cover again, and shake vigorously. Strain the
cocktail into the coupe.
BERRY DANGEROUS FIX
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Jane Danger
A cobbler with strawberries and anise
Aquavit, Campari, Strawberry, Orange Blossom Water, Lemon, Cane Sugar
2 Tristar strawberries, 1 for muddling and 1 for garnish
4 drops orange blossom water
¼ ounce Campari
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
1½ ounces Krogstad aquavit
In a cocktail tin, muddle a strawberry, then add the remaining ingredients
except the garnish. Fill a double rocks glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-
inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and whip. Strain the cocktail into the
double rocks glass. Fill the glass with more crushed ice and make a mound of
crushed ice up over the rim of the glass. Garnish with the remaining
strawberry.
BLACK DAHLIA
GLASS: Nick and Nora
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A bitter mezcal Manhattan
Mezcal, Moscatel Sherry, Grand Marnier, Zwack Unicum, Lemon
1 barspoon lemon juice
½ ounce Zwack Unicum
½ ounce Grand Marnier
¾ ounce Moscatel
1 ounce Sombra mezcal
Grapefruit twist, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the garnish in a mixing glass. Fill the glass
with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into a Nick and Nora glass and express the
oils of the grapefruit twist over the glass. Rub the twist on the rim of the glass
and drop it into the glass, leaving the flesh side up.
BLOCK PARTY
GLASS: Pilsner
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A vegetal cobbler with passionfruit
Vodka, Fino Sherry, Pale Cream Sherry, Yellow Chartreuse, Red Pepper, Passionfruit, Vanilla,
Lime
¼ ounce Vanilla Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce Passionfruit Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Absolut Elyx Vodka
½ ounce yellow Chartreuse
½ ounce red pepper juice
½ ounce lime juice
1 ounce Alvear Pale cream sherry
1 ounce Lustau Jarana fino sherry
3 lime wheels, for garnish
Mint plouche, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnishes. Add the
lime wheels to a Pilsner glass, going up from the base in a clockwise motion,
and then fill the glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the
cocktail tin. Cover and whip. Strain the cocktail into the Pilsner glass and top
with additional crushed ice. Garnish with the mint plouche.

BOHEMIA
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A rich martini variation with caraway
Genever, Aquavit, Chambery Blanc Vermouth, Maraschino Liqueur
¼ ounce Luxardo Maraschino liqueur
½ ounce Krogstad aquavit
1 ounce Dolin de Chambery Blanc vermouth
1½ ounces Bols genever
Lemon twist, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the lemon twist in a mixing glass. Fill the
glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into a coupe and express the oils of
the lemon twist over the glass. Rub the twist on the rim of the glass and drop
it into the glass, leaving the flesh side up.
BREAD AND BUTTERNUT
GLASS: Pilsner
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A festive fall cobbler reminiscent of pumpkin pie
Vodka, Cream and Amontillado Sherry, Becherovka, Kabocha Squash, Lemon, Angostura Bitters
2 dashes Angostura bitters
1 teaspoon Becherovka
½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
¾ ounce Kabocha Squash Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce Lustau East India Solera cream sherry
1 ounce Absolut Elyx vodka
1 ounce Lustau Jarana fino sherry
Lemon wheel, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Fill a Pilsner
glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover
and whip. Strain the cocktail into the Pilsner glass and top with additional
crushed ice. Garnish with the lemon wheel.
CHI CHI SWIZZLE
GLASS: Pilsner
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Will Peet
A caipirinha with flavors of red pepper and grapefruit
Cachaça, Amontillado Sherry, Chambery Blanc Vermouth, Barolo Chinato, Red Bell Pepper,
Grapefruit, Lemon
1 teaspoon Cane Syrup (this page)
½ ounce grapefruit juice
½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce Dolin de Chambery Blanc vermouth
¾ ounce Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
1 ounce Novo Fogo cachaça
1½ ounces Red Bell Pepper and Thai Bird Chile–Infused Barolo Chinato (this page)
Horse’s neck lemon twist, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the lemon twist in a cocktail tin. Fill a
Pilsner glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the tin. Cover
and whip. Strain the cocktail into the Pilsner glass, twist the horse’s neck
lemon twist into a tight coil, and lay it on top of the glass.
CHOKED UP
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A bitter gin sour with kumquat
London Dry Gin, Cynar, Kumquat, Cucumber, Mint, Lemon, Salt
Lemon wedge, for rimming
Salt, for rimming
1 kumquat, cut in half, ½ for muddling and ½ for garnish
2 cucumber slices, 1 for muddling and 1 for garnish
5 mint leaves
5 drops Saline Solution (this page)
½ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Cynar
1 ounce Beefeater gin
Mint plouche, for garnish
Use the lemon wedge to moisten the top inch of the outer rim of a chilled
double rocks glass. Gently roll the double rocks glass in salt to rim half of the
glass. Shake off excess salt. Use the corner of a folded cocktail napkin to make
the salt a consistent thickness. In a cocktail tin, muddle a kumquat half, a
cucumber slice, and the mint leaves, then add the remaining ingredients
except the garnishes. Fill the double rocks glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill
the cocktail tin with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Cover and shake vigorously. Strain
the cocktail into the double rocks glass. Garnish with the mint plouche and
remaining cucumber slice and kumquat half.
COQ-TAIL #1
GLASS: Rooster
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A bright, floral vodka sour
Vodka, Chambery Blanc Vermouth, Elderflower Liqueur, Absinthe, Honey, Pineapple, Lemon
SERVES 2
1 barspoon yuzu juice
1 teaspoon Vieux Pontarlier absinthe verte
1 ounce lemon juice
1 ounce pineapple juice
1 ounce Honey Syrup (this page)
1 ounce St-Germain
1 ounce Dolin de Chambery Blanc vermouth
3 ounces Absolut Elyx vodka
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients. Fill a rooster cup with crushed
ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and whip
vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the rooster cup using a hawthorne strainer
and top with additional crushed ice.
COQ-TAIL #2
GLASS: Rooster
ICE: Crushed
CREATORS: Nathan O’Neill, Pietro Collina, and Leo Robitschek
A buttery, herbaceous vodka sour
Vodka, Chambery Blanc Vermouth, Pear Brandy, Falernum, Brown Butter, Black Pepper,
Tarragon, Yuzu
SERVES 2
4 dashes yuzu juice
15 tarragon leaves
Scant 1 ounce Brown Butter Falernum (this page)
1 ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Tellicherry Black Pepper Syrup (this page)
1 ounce Clear Creek Pear brandy
2 ounces Dolin de Chambery Blanc vermouth
2 ounces Absolut Elyx vodka
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients. Fill a rooster cup with crushed
ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and whip
vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the rooster cup using a hawthorne strainer
and top with additional crushed ice.
COQ-TAIL #3
GLASS: Rooster
ICE: Crushed
CREATORS: Nathan O’Neill, Pietro Collina, and Leo Robitschek
A silky vodka sour with corn
Vodka, Amontillado Sherry, Corn, Cinnamon, Yuzu, Lime
SERVES 2
Scant ½ ounce yuzu juice
Scant ½ ounce Ceylon Cinnamon Syrup (this page)
1 ounce lime juice
2 ounces Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
2 ounces Corn Syrup (this page)
2 ounces Absolut Elyx vodka
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients. Fill a rooster cup with crushed
ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and whip
vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the rooster cup using a hawthorne strainer
and top with additional crushed ice.
DELI SLANG
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A gin sour inspired by the flavors of a delicatessen
London Dry Gin, Suze, Lemon Verbena, Buttermilk, Horseradish, Lemon, Egg White
1 egg white
6 drops Horseradish Tincture (this page), plus 4 dashes, for garnish
1 teaspoon Suze
¼ ounce Agave Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Lemon Verbena–Infused Buttermilk (this page)
1½ ounces Beefeater gin
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Seal and dry
shake to emulsify the egg white into the cocktail. Carefully open the tin and
fill with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Seal it again and shake vigorously. Strain the
cocktail into a chilled coupe using a hawthorne strainer and a fine tea strainer.
Once the egg white settles, use a Japanese bitters dasher to carefully add dots
of horseradish tincture around the rim of the glass.
DEWIN’ IT
GLASS: Pilsner
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A spicy margarita with roasted poblano peppers
Jalapeño-Infused Tequila, Mezcal, Suze, Roasted Poblano Pepper, Vanilla, Lemon
½ ounce Roasted Poblano Pepper Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Vanilla Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Suze
¾ ounce Jalapeño-Infused Tequila (this page)
¾ ounce Sombra mezcal
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients. Fill a Pilsner glass with crushed
ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and whip. Strain
the cocktail into the Pilsner glass and top with additional crushed ice.
DR. FEELGOOD
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A velvety mezcal margarita with spice
Mezcal, Fino Sherry, Suze, Génépy, Avocado, Lemon, Cucumber, Jalapeño, Salt, Aleppo Chile
Lime wedge, for rimming
Aleppo chile salt, for rimming
Cucumber slice, for muddling, plus whole-length cucumber slice, for garnish
¼ ounce Jalapeño-Infused Agave Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce Dolin Génépy
½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce Suze
¾ ounce Avocado Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce Lustau Jarana fino sherry
1 ounce Sombra mezcal
2 pineapple fronds, for garnish
Use the lime wedge to moisten the top inch of the outer rim of a chilled
double rocks glass. Gently roll the double rocks glass in chile salt to rim half of
the glass. Shake off excess salt. Use the corner of a folded cocktail napkin to
make the salt a consistent thickness. In a cocktail tin, muddle a cucumber slice,
then add the remaining ingredients except the garnishes. Fill the double rocks
glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the cocktail tin with 1¼-inch ice cubes.
Cover and shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass.
Take the remaining cucumber slice and roll it tight. Skewer the cucumber and
two small tips of the pineapple fronds and garnish the cocktail.

DR. WALNUT
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Nathan O’Neill
A nutty and bitter gin sour
Genever, Amaro Ciociaro, Frangelico, Royal Combier, Ginger, Lemon, Egg White
1 egg white
¼ ounce Royal Combier
¼ ounce Frangelico
½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce Ginger Lime Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce Paolucci Amaro Ciociaro
1 ounce Bols genever
Shaved hazelnut, for garnish
Shaved walnut, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnishes. Seal and dry
shake to emulsify the egg white into the cocktail. Carefully open the tin and
fill with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Seal it again and shake vigorously. Strain the
cocktail into a chilled coupe using a hawthorne strainer and a fine tea strainer.
Garnish with hazelnut and walnut shavings.
EL REY
GLASS: Highball
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A tequila cobbler with the flavors of seasonal Mexican corn
Highlands Blanco Tequila, Amontillado Sherry, Corn, Coconut, Lime, Pistachio
¼ ounce Coconut Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lime juice
½ ounce Excellia Blanco tequila
1 ounce Corn Syrup (this page)
1½ ounces Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
Lime zest, for garnish
Shaved pistachio, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnishes. Fill a
highball glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail
tin. Cover and whip vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass and
top with additional crushed ice. Garnish with zested lime and pistachio
shavings.
EL TUCAN
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A smoky, vegetal paloma
Mezcal, Genepy, Celery, Grapefruit, Agave, Peychaud’s Bitters, Salt
2 lime wedges, 1 for rimming and 1 for garnish
Salt, for rimming
½ ounce Agave Syrup (this page)
½ ounce grapefruit juice
½ ounce celery juice
¾ ounce lime juice
1 ounce Alpe Genepy
1 ounce Sombra mezcal
4 dashes Peychaud’s bitters, for garnish
1 ounce Seagram’s club soda
Use a lime wedge to moisten the top inch of the outer rim of a chilled
highball glass. Gently roll the highball glass in salt to rim half of the glass.
Shake off excess salt. Use the corner of a folded cocktail napkin to make the
salt a consistent thickness. Fill the highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. In a
cocktail tin, combine the remaining ingredients except the garnishes and club
soda. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the tin. Seal the tin and whip
vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass using a hawthorne
strainer. Add the Peychaud’s bitters to the top of the drink and then fill the
glass with the club soda and garnish with the remaining lime wedge.

ENGLISH HEAT
GLASS: Fizz
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A spicy gin sour with hints of vanilla
London Dry Gin, Chambery Dry Vermouth, Tuaca, Jalapeño, Agave, Lemon
¼ ounce Tuaca
¾ ounce Jalapeño-Infused Agave Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce Dolin de Chambery Dry vermouth
1 ounce lemon juice
1½ ounces Beefeater gin
Combine all the ingredients in a cocktail tin. Fill a fizz glass with 1¼-inch ice
cubes. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail
into the fizz glass.
FAR FROM THE TREE
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch ice cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A fall-spiced margarita with hints of apple
Highlands Blanco Tequila, Pommeau, Cardamaro, Allspice Dram, Lemon, Cinnamon, Mole
Bitters
4 dashes Bittermens Xocolatl Mole bitters
½ ounce Cassia Cinnamon Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Cardamaro
¾ ounce Camut Pommeau
1 ounce Excellia Blanco tequila
St. Elizabeth allspice dram, as a rinse
Combine all the ingredients except the allspice dram in a cocktail tin. Rinse a
double rocks glass with six sprays of allspice dram from an atomizer and place
a 2-inch ice cube in it. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and shake. Strain the
cocktail into the glass.
FIG AND THISTLE
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A fig-and-honey-flavored tequila sour
Highlands Blanco Tequila, Cardamaro, Fig Leaf, Honey, Earl Grey, Lemon, Aromatic Bitters,
Salt
2 dashes Bitter Truth aromatic bitters
5 drops Saline Solution (this page)
1 teaspoon Honey Syrup (this page)
Scant ½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce Fig Leaf Syrup (this page)
1 ounce Cardamaro
1½ ounces Earl Grey Tea-Washed Excellia Blanco Tequila (this page)
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients. Cover and dry shake vigorously.
Fill a double rocks glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the cocktail tin with 1¼-
inch ice cubes. Seal it again and shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the
double rocks glass.
FORBIDDEN DANCE
GLASS: Tiki mug
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Wally Suarez
A tiki drink with caraway and malt
Aquavit, Genever, Velvet Falernum, Amontillado Sherry, Orgeat, Vanilla, Pineapple, Lime
¼ ounce Vanilla Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce John D. Taylor’s Velvet Falernum
½ ounce lime juice
½ ounce pineapple juice
½ ounce Orgeat (this page)
¾ ounce Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
1 ounce Bols genever
1 ounce Krogstad aquavit
Mint plouche, for garnish
Grated nutmeg, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the mint and nutmeg in a cocktail tin. Fill
a tiki mug with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the tin, cover,
and whip. Strain the cocktail into the tiki mug and top with additional
crushed ice. Garnish with the mint plouche and grated nutmeg.
THE GILSEY
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Jessica Gonzalez
A savory, vegetal martini
London Dry Gin, Pale Cream Sherry, Cocchi Americano, Kirschwasser, Green Chartreuse,
Orange Bitters
1 dash House Orange Bitters (this page)
1 teaspoon Clear Creek kirschwasser
½ ounce Cocchi Americano
¾ ounce Alvear Pale cream sherry
¾ ounce Tanqueray gin
¾ ounce Tanqueray 10 gin
Green Chartreuse, as a rinse
Combine all the ingredients except the Chartreuse in a mixing glass. Rinse a
coupe with six sprays of green Chartreuse from an atomizer. Fill the mixing
glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into the coupe.
GOLDEN TICKET
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Nathan O’Neill
A margarita with flavors of mole
Highlands Blanco Tequila, Pale Cream Sherry, Ancho Reyes, Crème de Cacao, Lemon,
Chocolate
3 dashes Bitter Truth chocolate bitters
1 teaspoon Marie Brizard crème de cacao
¼ ounce Agave Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce Ancho Reyes
1 ounce Alvear Pale cream sherry
1 ounce Excellia Blanco tequila
Chocolate Shell (this page), for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Using a
brush, paint a brushstroke of chocolate shell in a chilled double rocks glass,
starting at the bottom and going to the top in a 45-degree angle. Place a 2-
inch ice cube in the double rocks glass. Fill the cocktail tin with 1¼-inch ice
cubes. Seal the tin and shake. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass
using a hawthorne strainer and a fine tea strainer.
GREEN STREETS
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A lighter, vegetal pisco Negroni
Pisco Acholado, Chambery Blanc Vermouth, Cocchi Americano, Sorrel
1 ounce Cocchi Americano
1 ounce Sorrel-Infused Dolin de Chambery Blanc Vermouth (this page)
1 ounce Macchu Pisco La Diablada
Sorrel leaf, for garnish
In a chilled mixing glass, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Fill
the mixing glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into a
chilled double rocks glass over a 2-inch ice cube. Garnish with the sorrel leaf.
HEARSAY
GLASS: Nick and Nora
ICE: None
CREATOR: Nathan O’Neill
A fall-spiced mezcal Manhattan
Mezcal, Amaro Nonino, Moscatel Sherry, Jamaican Rum, Pimento Dram, Grapefruit Bitters
1 dash Bitter Truth grapefruit bitters
1 teaspoon Hamilton pimento dram
¼ ounce Hamilton Jamaican gold rum
½ ounce Lustau Emilín Moscatel sherry
¾ ounce Amaro Nonino Quintessentia
1 ounce Del Maguey Vida mezcal
In a mixing glass, combine all the ingredients. Fill the mixing glass with 1¼-
inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into a Nick and Nora glass using a
hawthorne strainer.
HONEY OAT
GLASS: Fizz
ICE: None
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A milk-and-honey-flavored Ramos gin fizz
Brandy, Honey Liqueur, Yellow Chartreuse, Oolong Tea, Lemon, Oatmilk
1 egg white
4 dashes Pernod Absinthe
¼ ounce yellow Chartreuse
½ ounce KAS Krupnikas
¾ ounce Oolong Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Oatly oatmilk
1 ounce Monteru brandy
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients. Seal and dry shake to emulsify
the egg white into the cocktail. Carefully open the tin and fill with 1¼-inch
ice cubes. Seal it again and shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into a chilled
fizz glass using a hawthorne strainer and a fine tea strainer.
HOT LIPS
GLASS: Single rocks
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Jessica Gonzalez
A take on a smoky-spicy margarita with pineapple and vanilla
Jalapeño-Infused Blanco Tequila, Mezcal, Pineapple, Vanilla
1 teaspoon Cane Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Vanilla Syrup (this page)
½ ounce pineapple juice
¾ ounce Sombra mezcal
¾ ounce Jalapeño-Infused Tequila (this page)
Salt, for rimming
Combine all the ingredients except the salt in a mixing glass. Rim a single
rocks glass with salt and fill it with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the mixing glass
with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into the single rocks glass.
ISLAND TIME
GLASS: Pilsner
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Guillermo Bravo
A tiki cocktail with ginger and peach
Panamanian Rum, Antiguan Rum, Crème de Pêche, Suze, Orgeat, Ginger, Lime, Orange Bitters
2 dashes House Orange Bitters (this page)
1 teaspoon Spicy Ginger Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Massenez Crème de Pêche
½ ounce English Harbour rum
½ ounce Suze
½ ounce grapefruit juice
¾ ounce lime juice
¾ ounce Orgeat (this page)
1 ounce Caña Brava rum
6 dashes Angostura bitters, for garnish
Mint plouche, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnishes. Fill a Pilsner
glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover
and whip. Strain the cocktail into the Pilsner glass, add the Angostura bitters,
and top with additional crushed ice. Garnish with the mint plouche.
JITNEY
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A mezcal Negroni variation with cof ee and absinthe
Mezcal, Campari, Marseilles Dry Vermouth, Chambery Blanc Vermouth, Coffee, Absinthe
2 dashes Pernod Absinthe
½ ounce Coffee-Infused Dry Vermouth (this page)
½ ounce Dolin de Chambery Blanc vermouth
¾ ounce Campari
¾ ounce Sombra mezcal
Grapefruit twist, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the grapefruit twist in a mixing glass. Add
a 2-inch ice cube to a double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with ice and
stir. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass and express the oils of the
grapefruit twist over the glass. Rub the twist on the rim of the glass and drop
it into the glass, leaving the flesh side up.
KOALA PEAR
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A Tom Collins with eucalyptus and bay leaf
New American Gin, Pear Brandy, Cocchi Americano, Eucalyptus, Bay Leaf, Lemon
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Cocchi Americano
1 ounce Eucalyptus Bay Leaf Syrup (this page)
1 ounce Purkhart Pear Williams brandy
1 ounce St. George Terroir gin
1 ounce Seagram’s club soda
2 lemon wheels, for garnish
Bay leaf, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the club soda and
garnishes. Fill a highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the cocktail tin with
1¼-inch ice cubes. Cover and shake vigorously. Add the club soda to the
cocktail tin. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass. Skewer the lemon
wheels, one on top of the other, and put the bay leaf between them, then
garnish the cocktail.
LOISAIDA AVENUE
GLASS: Nick and Nora
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A mezcal margarita that is spicy and herbaceous
Mezcal, Tequila, Green Chartreuse, Jalapeño, Lemon, Angostura Bitters
½ ounce Simple Syrup (this page)
½ ounce green Chartreuse
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Sombra mezcal
¾ ounce Jalapeño-Infused Tequila (this page)
1 dash Angostura bitters, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the bitters in a cocktail tin. Fill the tin
with ice, cover, and shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into a Nick and
Nora glass. Top the cocktail with the Angostura bitters.
LONGFELLOW
GLASS: Black highball by Stölzle
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Nathan O’Neill
A Tom Collins with horseradish and apple
Plymouth Gin, Cocchi Americano, Apple Brandy, Pear Brandy, Honey, Cinnamon, Horseradish,
Lemon, Cardamom, Absinthe
2 cardamom pods, for muddling
4 dashes Pernod Absinthe
4 drops Saline Solution (this page)
¼ ounce Clear Creek Pear brandy
¼ ounce Ceylon Cinnamon Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Honey Syrup (this page)
½ ounce St. George unaged apple brandy
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Cocchi Americano
1½ ounces Horseradish-Infused Gin (this page)
1 ounce Seagram’s club soda
Daikon radish, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, muddle the cardamom pods, then add the remaining
ingredients except the club soda and garnish. Fill a black highball glass with
1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the cocktail tin with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Cover and
shake vigorously. Add the club soda to the tin. Strain the cocktail into the
highball glass. Using a vegetable sheeter, sheet a foot of daikon radish. Fold
the radish lengthwise into a fan, so it looks like a flower, and insert it into the
top of the glass.

LOWRIDER
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A mezcal Manhattan with fig
Mezcal, Moscatel and Oloroso Sherry, Amaro Nonino, Fig, Verjus, Aromatic Bitters
1 dash Bitter Truth aromatic bitters
6 dashes Angostura bitters
1 teaspoon Fusion verjus blanc juice
¼ ounce Fig Leaf Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce Lustau Don Nuño Oloroso sherry
½ ounce Amaro Nonino Quintessentia
½ ounce Lustau Emilín Moscatel sherry
1 ounce Sombra mezcal
In a chilled mixing glass, combine all the ingredients. Fill the mixing glass
with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into a chilled double rocks
glass over a 2-inch ice cube.
MAD GNOME
GLASS: Copper gnome or double rocks
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATORS: Leo Robitschek and Pietro Collina
A dirty chai vodka cobbler
Vodka, Marseilles Vermouth, Pale Cream Sherry, Vermouth di Torino, Chai, Coffee, Absinthe,
Lemon
3 dashes Pernod Absinthe
½ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce Chai-Infused Cocchi Vermouth di Torino (this page)
½ ounce Absolut Elyx vodka
½ ounce Alvear Pale cream sherry
½ ounce Coffee-Infused Dry Vermouth (this page)
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients. Fill a copper gnome glass or a
chilled double rocks glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the cocktail tin with
1¼-inch ice cubes. Seal the tin and shake. Strain the cocktail into the gnome
glass using a hawthorne strainer and a fine tea strainer.

MAIZE RUNNER
GLASS: Highball
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Shaun Dunn
A corn-and-blueberry cobbler
Genever, Amontillado Sherry, Corn, Coconut, Lime, Blueberries
5 blueberries, for muddling
¼ ounce Coconut Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lime juice
½ ounce Bols genever
1 ounce Corn Syrup (this page)
1½ ounces Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
Lime zest, for garnish
Orange zest, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, muddle the blueberries, then add the remaining ingredients
except the garnishes. Fill a highball glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch
ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and whip vigorously. Strain the cocktail
into the highball glass and top with additional crushed ice. Garnish with lime
and orange zests.
MOTHER’S LITTLE HELPER
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Jessica Gonzalez
A floral-rich gin martini
Genever, Pale Cream Sherry, Chambery Dry Vermouth, Triple Sec, Elderflower Liqueur
1 dash Peychaud’s bitters
1 teaspoon St-Germain
½ ounce Combier triple sec
¾ ounce Dolin de Chambery Dry vermouth
1 ounce Alvear Pale cream sherry
1 ounce Bols genever
Combine all the ingredients in a mixing glass. Fill the mixing glass with ice
and stir. Strain the cocktail into a coupe.
NEEDLE AND THREAD
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATORS: Will Peet and Leo Robitschek
A citrus-forward gin martini
London Dry Gin, Gentiane, Chambery Blanc Vermouth, Acqua di Cedro, Orange Bitters,
Absinthe
2 dashes House Orange Bitters (this page)
½ ounce Nardini Acqua di Cedro
½ ounce Salers Gentiane
½ ounce Dolin de Chambery Blanc vermouth
2 ounces Beefeater gin
Pernod Absinthe, as a rinse
Lemon twist, for expressing
Combine all the ingredients except the absinthe and lemon twist in a mixing
glass. Rinse a coupe glass with six sprays of absinthe from an atomizer. Fill the
mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into the coupe. Express the
oils of the lemon twist over the glass, then discard the twist.
NOD TO NOTHING
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A floral, tart, and herbaceous gin fix
London Dry Gin, Cocchi Americano, Apricot Liqueur, Jasmine, Yuzu, Lemon, Sage
5 sage leaves
3 dashes yuzu juice
¼ ounce Marie Brizard Apry
½ ounce Jasmine Pearl Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Cocchi Americano
1 ounce Fords gin
Lemon wheel, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Fill a double
rocks glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin.
Cover and whip. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass, add additional
crushed ice, and dome the top of the cocktail using a julep strainer. Garnish
with the lemon wheel.
OLD RANHOFER
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Jim Betz
A spicy rum Old-Fashioned with flavors of rum raisin
Haitian Rum, Raisin, Vanilla, Coffee, Jamaican Jerk Bitters
2 dashes The Bitter End Jamaican Jerk bitters
1 barspoon Cold Brew Coffee Concentrate (this page)
Heavy ¼ ounce Vanilla Syrup (this page)
2 ounces Raisin-Infused Barbancourt Blanc Rhum (this page)
In a mixing glass, combine all the ingredients. Place a 2-inch ice cube in a
double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Strain
the cocktail into the double rocks glass.
PAINT IT BLACK
GLASS: Highball
ICE: Crushed
CREATORS: Jessica Gonzalez and Leo Robitschek
A tequila cobbler with blackberries and vanilla
Highlands Blanco Tequila, Fino Sherry, Velvet Falernum, Vanilla, Blackberries
¼ ounce Vanilla Syrup (this page)
½ ounce John D. Taylor’s Velvet Falernum
¾ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Lustau Jarana fino sherry
1 ounce Excellia Blanco Tequila
¼ ounce Simple Syrup (this page)
5 medium blackberries, for muddling
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the simple syrup and
blackberries. Fill a highball glass with crushed ice. In a separate cocktail tin,
combine the simple syrup and blackberries and muddle. Add three 1¼-inch
ice cubes to the tin with the liquid ingredients. Cover and whip. Strain the
cocktail into the highball glass and top with additional crushed ice and the
muddled blackberry mixture.
PANAMERICANO
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A white Negroni variation highlighting pisco
Pisco Quebranta, Chambery Blanc Vermouth, Cocchi Americano
1 ounce Dolin de Chambery Blanc vermouth
1 ounce Cocchi Americano
1 ounce Macchu Pisco
Orange twist, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the orange twist in a mixing glass. Place a
2-inch ice cube in a double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with ice and stir.
Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass and express the oils of the
orange twist over the glass. Rub the twist on the rim of the glass and drop it
into the glass, leaving the flesh side up.
PARIS IS BURNING
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A smoky gin sour with elderflower
London Dry Gin, Mezcal, Elderflower Liqueur, Pineapple, Lemon, Angostura Bitters
¼ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
½ ounce St-Germain
½ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce pineapple juice
1 ounce Sombra mezcal
1 ounce Beefeater gin
1 dash Angostura bitters, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the bitters in a cocktail tin. Fill the tin
with ice. Cover and shake. Strain the cocktail into a coupe. Top with the
Angostura bitters.
PETTICOAT
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Jessica Gonzalez
A gin sour with Szechuan spice
London Dry Gin, Velvet Falernum, Apricot Liqueur, Szechuan Peppercorn, Lemon
¼ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce John D. Taylor’s Velvet Falernum
¼ ounce Marie Brizard Apry
½ ounce lemon juice
2 ounces Szechuan Peppercorn–Infused Gin (this page)
Combine all the ingredients in a cocktail tin. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and
shake. Strain the cocktail into a coupe.
PIEDMONT FIZZ
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
An anise-forward gin Collins
London Dry Gin, Cocchi Americano, Absinthe, Lemon
½ ounce Simple Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Cocchi Americano
1 ounce Beefeater gin
1 ounce Seagram’s club soda
¼ ounce Pernod Absinthe, to float
Lemon wheel, for garnish
Combine the simple syrup, lemon juice, Cocchi Americano, and gin in a
cocktail tin. Fill a highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the cocktail tin
with ice, cover, and shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the highball
glass. Add the club soda and float the absinthe on top of the drink. Garnish
with the lemon wheel.
RAINBOW ROAD
GLASS: Highball
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A herbaceous, stone-fruit highball
Pisco Acholado, Crème de Pêche, Strega, Lemon, Honey, Basil, Peychaud’s Bitters
3 basil leaves
¼ ounce Honey Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce Strega
½ ounce Massenez Crème de Pêche
¾ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Macchu Pisco La Diablada
6 dashes Peychaud’s bitters, for garnish
Lime wheel, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnishes. Fill a
highball glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail
tin. Cover and whip. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass, add the
Peychaud’s bitters, and top with additional crushed ice. Garnish with the lime
wheel.
RED LIGHT
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Jessica Gonzalez
A bittered anise–flavored daiquiri
Nicaraguan Rum, Aquavit, Campari, Velvet Falernum, Vanilla, Grapefruit, Lime, Wormwood
Bitters
2 dashes Cocktail Kingdom Wormwood bitters
¼ ounce John D. Taylor’s Velvet Falernum
½ ounce Vanilla Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lime juice
¾ ounce ruby red grapefruit juice
1 ounce Flor de Caña 4-Year Extra Dry rum
1 ounce Krogstad aquavit
½ ounce Campari
Combine all the ingredients except the Campari in a cocktail tin. Pour the
Campari into a double rocks glass and add a 2-inch ice cube. Fill the tin with
ice, cover, and shake vigorously. Slowly strain the cocktail into the double
rocks glass, making sure you pour the liquid over the ice cube—this will
ensure that the cocktail layers over the Campari.
RED PEPPER–PASSIONFRUIT DAIQUIRI
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A savory daiquiri that is perfect for brunch
Antiguan Rum, Jamaican Rum, Guyanese Rum, Passionfruit, Red Pepper, Honey, Lemon
2 dashes Angostura bitters
¼ ounce Passionfruit Syrup (this page)
½ ounce El Dorado 15-Year rum
½ ounce Appleton Signature rum
Scant ¾ ounce Red Pepper Honey Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce English Harbour rum
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients. Fill the tin with 1¼-inch ice
cubes. Cover and shake. Strain the cocktail into a chilled coupe.
RUE BARBARE
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A smoky rhubarb–olive oil tequila sour
Highlands Blanco Tequila, Fino Sherry, Crema de Mezcal, Rhubarb, Lemon, Olive Oil,
Angostura Bitters, Peychaud’s Bitters
2 mint leaves
2 dashes Angostura bitters
2 dashes Peychaud’s bitters
½ ounce Del Maguey Crema de Mezcal
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Rhubarb Syrup (this page)
1 ounce Lustau Jarana fino sherry
1 ounce Olive Oil–Washed Tequila (this page)
Sombra mezcal, to finish
Combine all the ingredients except the mezcal in a cocktail tin. Fill the tin
with ice, cover, and shake. Strain into a double rocks glass over a 2-inch ice
cube. Top with six sprays of mezcal from an atomizer.
RUNYON CANYON
GLASS: Belgium
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Shaun Dunn
A tiki variation on the flavors of a vodka cranberry
Vodka, Vermouth di Torino, Amontillado Sherry, Cranberry, Passionfruit, Lime, Mint, Islay
Scotch
¼ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce Passionfruit Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Cranberry Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lime juice
¾ ounce Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
¾ ounce Cocchi Vermouth di Torino
1½ ounces Absolut Elyx vodka
Mint plouche, for garnish
Laphroaig 10-Year Scotch, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnishes. Fill a
Belgium glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail
tin. Cover and whip vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the Belgium glass
using a hawthorne strainer and top with additional crushed ice. Using an
atomizer, spritz the mint plouche with six sprays of Scotch and garnish the
cocktail.
SAKURA MARU
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATORS: Leo Robitschek and Guillermo Bravo
A pisco sour with cinnamon and yogurt
Genever, Pisco Quebranta, Aged Cachaça, Green Tea, Sheep’s Milk Yogurt, Lemon
½ ounce Agave Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Avuá Amburana cachaça
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Macchu Pisco
¾ ounce Bols genever
1 ounce Green Tea Yogurt Syrup (this page)
Lime zest, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Place a 2-inch
ice cube in a double rocks glass. Fill the cocktail tin with 1¼-inch ice cubes.
Cover and shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass.
Garnish with lime zest.
SCARLET KNIGHT
GLASS: Cobbler
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
Cranberry and pine meet a gin sour
New Western Gin, Ramazzotti Amaro, Rabarbaro Zucca Amaro, Douglas Fir, Lemon,
Cranberry, Mint
¼ ounce Rabarbaro Zucca amaro
½ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Cranberry Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce Ramazzotti amaro
1 ounce St. George Dry Rye gin
Mint plouche, for garnish
Clear Creek Douglas Fir eau de vie, for garnish
2 fresh cranberries, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the mint, eau de vie, and
cranberries. Fill a cobbler glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes
to the tin, cover, and whip. Strain the cocktail into the cobbler glass. Spritz
the mint plouche six times with Douglas Fir eau de vie from an atomizer.
Garnish the cocktail with the fir-scented mint plouche and the cranberries.
SERGEANT PEPPER
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Nathan O’Neill
A herbaceous tequila sour with spice and green pepper
Cachaça, Highlands Blanco Tequila, Jalapeño, Green Pepper, Pineapple, Lime, Salt
5 drops Saline Solution (this page)
¼ ounce pineapple juice
½ ounce lime juice
½ ounce Agave Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Jalapeño-Infused Tequila (this page)
¾ ounce green pepper juice
1 ounce Avuá Prata cachaça
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients. Fill the tin with 1¼-inch ice
cubes. Cover and shake. Strain the cocktail into a chilled coupe.
SHIRLEY HEIGHTS
GLASS: Belgium
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Julian Reingold
A rum punch with bittered orange, strawberry, and almond
Antiguan Rum, Aperol, Fino Sherry, Orgeat, Passionfruit, Strawberry, Vanilla, Lime, Mint
2 medium strawberries, 1 for muddling and 1 for garnish
1 teaspoon Passionfruit Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce Vanilla Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Orgeat (this page)
½ ounce lime juice
¾ ounce Aperol
1 ounce Lustau Jarana fino sherry
1 ounce English Harbour rum
Mint plouche, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, muddle a strawberry, then add the remaining ingredients
except the garnishes. Fill a Belgium glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch
ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and whip vigorously. Strain the cocktail
into the Belgium glass using a hawthorne strainer and top with additional
crushed ice. Garnish with the mint plouche and remaining strawberry.
SOUTH PARK SLING
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A bitter variation on a gin sling
London Dry Gin, Cynar, Aperol, Cherry Heering, Passionfruit, Pineapple, Lime, Coffee-Infused
Angostura Bitters
4 dashes Coffee-Infused Angostura Bitters (this page)
1 teaspoon Passionfruit Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Cherry Heering
¾ ounce lime juice
¾ ounce pineapple juice
¾ ounce Aperol
¾ ounce Cynar
¾ ounce Beefeater gin
1 ounce Seagram’s club soda
Orange half-wheel, for garnish
3 mint sprigs, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the club soda and
garnishes. Fill a highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the cocktail tin with
1¼-inch ice cubes. Cover and shake vigorously. Add the club soda to the
cocktail tin. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass. Skewer the orange halfwheel through the ends, place the mint sprigs through the center, and garnish
the cocktail.
SUMMER JAMZ
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Nathan O’Neil
A tart berry cobbler with floral tones
Aquavit, Elderflower Liqueur, Rabarbaro, Lingonberry, Lemon
1 barspoon lingonberry jam
¼ ounce Rabarbaro Zucca amaro
¼ ounce St-Germain
½ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
1½ ounces Krogstad aquavit
2 lemon wheels, for garnish
1 raspberry, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnishes. Fill a double
rocks glass with crushed ice. Cut the lemon wheels in half and skewer them in
a fan shape. Add the raspberry to the top of the skewer. Add three 1¼-inch
ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and whip. Strain the cocktail into the
double rocks glass, add additional crushed ice, and dome the top of the
cocktail using a julep strainer. Garnish with the lemon wheel–raspberry fan.
THIRD PEDAL
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A bergamot tequila sour with olive oil
Highland Blanco Tequila, Fino Sherry, Italicus, Salers, Green Tea, Sheep’s Milk Yogurt,
Grapefruit, Lime, Olive Oil
Grapefruit twist, for shaking
½ ounce Agave Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lime juice
½ ounce grapefruit juice
½ ounce Salers Gentiane
½ ounce Italicus
1 ounce Green Tea Yogurt Syrup (this page)
1 ounce Lustau Jarana fino sherry
1 ounce Olive Oil–Washed Tequila (this page)
3 drops extra-virgin olive oil, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Place a 2-inch
ice cube in a double rocks glass. Fill the cocktail tin with 1¼-inch ice cubes.
Cover and shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass.
Garnish with the olive oil.
TIT FOR TAT
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A bitter fruit-and-caraway sour
Aquavit, Fino Sherry, Elderflower Liqueur, Yellow Chartreuse, Raspberry, Lemon
¼ ounce yellow Chartreuse
½ ounce Raspberry Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce St-Germain
1 ounce Lustau Jarana fino sherry
1 ounce Krogstad aquavit
2 raspberries, for garnish
Lemon wheel, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnishes. Fill a double
rocks glass with crushed ice. Skewer the raspberries through the lemon wheel.
Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and whip. Strain the
cocktail into the double rocks glass, add additional crushed ice, and dome the
top of the cocktail using a julep strainer. Garnish with the lemon wheel–
raspberry flag.
VASA
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Julia Reingold
A coconut vodka sour with caraway and fennel
Vodka, Fino Sherry, Elderflower Liqueur, Coconut, Aquavit, Absinthe, Celery, Fennel, Lemon
1 pinch fennel seeds, for muddling
½-inch piece celery, for muddling
2 dashes Pernod Absinthe
¼ ounce Krogstad aquavit
Scant ½ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Lustau Jarana fino sherry
½ ounce St-Germain
½ ounce lemon juice
1½ ounces Coconut-Infused Absolut Elyx (this page)
In a cocktail tin, muddle the fennel seeds and celery, then add the remaining
ingredients. Place a 2-inch ice cube in a double rocks glass. Fill the cocktail tin
with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Cover and shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into
the double rocks glass.
V.O.C.
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Jim Betz
A gingersnap cookie meets a genever sour
Genever, New Western Gin, Maple Syrup, Ginger, Cinnamon, Lemon
1 teaspoon Cassia Cinnamon Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce Spicy Ginger Syrup (this page)
Scant ½ ounce Grade A maple syrup
½ ounce St. George Dry Rye gin
¾ ounce lemon juice
1½ ounces Bols genever
Combine all the ingredients in a cocktail tin. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and
shake. Strain the cocktail into a coupe.
WALTER GIBSON
GLASS: Nick and Nora
ICE: None
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A take on a savory Gibson, inspired by chenin blanc
Vodka, New American Gin, London Dry Gin, Chambery Dry and Blanc Vermouth, Apple
Brandy, Chenin Blanc, Pickle
SERVES 2
1 teaspoon Pineapple Gomme (this page)
¼ ounce St. George unaged apple brandy
½ ounce Moulin Touchais chenin blanc 1994
½ ounce Dolin de Chambery Blanc vermouth
½ ounce Dolin de Chambery Dry vermouth
½ ounce Old Raj Blue Navy Strength gin
1 ounce Edinburgh Seaside gin
1 ounce Absolut Elyx vodka
6 pickled pearl onions, for garnish
In a mixing glass, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Fill the
mixing glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into two Nick
and Nora glasses using a hawthorne strainer. Garnish each with 3 pearl onions.
WHEY TO GO
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Nathan O’Neill
A lactic Collins with a touch of bitterness
Guyanese Rum, Cocchi Americano, Salers, Whey, White Balsamic Vinegar, Lemon, Absinthe
2 dashes Pernod Absinthe
7 dashes white balsamic vinegar
½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce Salers Gentiane
1 ounce Cocchi Americano
1 ounce Whey Syrup (this page)
1 ounce El Dorado 3-Year rum
1½ ounces Seagram’s club soda
1 dill frond, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the club soda and garnish.
Fill a highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the cocktail tin with 1¼-inch
ice cubes. Cover and shake. Add the club soda to the cocktail tin. Strain the
cocktail into the highball glass. Garnish with the dill frond.


1903
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Jessica Gonzalez
A Manhattan variation with notes of apple and grapefruit
Apple Brandy, Cognac, Vermouth di Torino, Cocchi Americano, Grapefruit Bitters
2 dashes Scrappy’s Grapefruit bitters
¾ ounce Cocchi Vermouth di Torino
¾ ounce Cocchi Americano
1 ounce Pierre Ferrand 1840 Cognac
1 ounce Laird’s apple brandy
Combine all the ingredients in a mixing glass. Fill the mixing glass with ice
and stir. Strain the cocktail into a coupe.
BAUDOUINE
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Gino Pellarin
A tequila Manhattan with mole flavors
Añejo Highlands Tequila, Amaro Nonino, Sweet Vermouth, Cream Sherry, Crème de Cacao,
Mole Bitters, Orange Bitters
1 dash House Orange Bitters (this page)
3 dashes Bittermens Xocolatl Mole bitters
1 teaspoon Marie Brizard crème de cacao white
½ ounce Lustau East India Solera cream sherry
¾ ounce Carpano Antica Formula sweet vermouth
¾ ounce Amaro Nonino Quintessentia
1½ ounces Siete Leguas añejo tequila
Combine all the ingredients in a mixing glass. Add a 2-inch ice cube to a
double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail
into the double rocks glass.
BEAU FOUR
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A springtime Manhattan with mentholated complexity and depth
Bourbon, Chambery Dry Vermouth, Nardini Amaro, Amaro Ciociaro, Cucumber
2 whole-length cucumber slices, 1 for stirring and 1 for garnish
Scant ½ ounce Foro Amaro
½ ounce Nardini amaro
¾ ounce Dolin de Chambery Dry vermouth
1½ ounces Jim Beam Black bourbon
Combine all the ingredients except the cucumber garnish in a mixing glass.
Fill the mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into a coupe. Skewer
the remaining cucumber slice into a wave and garnish the cocktail.
BEE LAVENDER
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A Scotch sour with hints of lavender and honey
Blended Scotch, Cocchi Americano, Lavender-Infused Honey, Lemon
¾ ounce Lavender-Infused Honey Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Cocchi Americano
1½ ounces J&B blended Scotch whisky
Combine all the ingredients in a cocktail tin. Place a 2-inch ice cube in a
double rocks glass. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and shake. Strain the cocktail
into the double rocks glass.
BIRCH TREE
GLASS: Nick and Nora
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A cognac Manhattan reminiscent of root beer flavors
Cognac, Aged Aquavit, Vermouth di Torino, Amaro Nonino, Coffee, Sarsaparilla
2 dashes Sarsaparilla Tincture (this page)
½ ounce Cold Brew Coffee Concentrate (this page)
½ ounce Amaro Nonino
¾ ounce Cocchi Vermouth di Torino
¾ ounce Linie aquavit
1 ounce Pierre Ferrand 1840 Cognac
Brandied Cherry (see this page), for garnish
Grapefruit twist, for expressing
Combine all the ingredients except the cherry and grapefruit twist in a mixing
glass. Fill the mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into a Nick and
Nora glass and garnish with the brandied cherry. Express the oils from the
grapefruit twist over the cocktail, then discard the twist.
BITCHES BREW
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A bitter-chocolate-and-cof ee-tinged Manhattan
Rye Whiskey, Zwack Unicum, Coffee, Mole Bitters
4 dashes Bitter Truth Xocolatl Mole bitters
Scant ½ ounce Demerara Simple Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Cold Brew Coffee Concentrate (this page)
½ ounce Zwack Unicum
2 ounces Old Overholt rye whiskey
In a chilled mixing glass, combine all the ingredients. Fill the mixing glass
with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into a chilled coupe.
BLACKTAIL
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Nicholas Rolin
A Scotch sour with banana, yuzu, and almond
Islay Scotch, Jamaican Rum, Banana Liqueur, Orgeat, Lemon, Yuzu, Absinthe
2 dashes yuzu juice
3 dashes Vieux Pontarlier absinthe verte
¼ ounce Diplomático Reserva Exclusiva rum
½ ounce Orgeat (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce Giffard banana liqueur
½ ounce Hamilton Jamaican gold rum
1 ounce Bowmore 12-Year Scotch
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients. Place a 2-inch ice cube in a
double rocks glass. Fill the cocktail tin with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Cover and
shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass.
BLISTERED IN THE SUN
GLASS: Pilsner
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A rye-based tiki drink with red pepper and passionfruit
Rye Whiskey, Amontillado Sherry, Red Pepper, Passionfruit, Lemon, Salt
5 drops Saline Solution (this page)
2 dashes Angostura bitters
¼ ounce Passionfruit Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Red Pepper Agave Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
1 ounce Old Overholt rye whiskey
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients. Fill a Pilsner glass with crushed
ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and whip. Strain
the cocktail into the Pilsner glass and top with additional crushed ice.
BROADWAY
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Nathan O’Neill
A bitter Manhattan variation named after the famous street where NoMad NYC is located
Rye Whiskey, Vermouth di Torino, Bonal, Cynar, Maraschino Liqueur, Orange and Angostura
Bitters
1 dash Angostura bitters
1 dash House Orange Bitters (this page)
1 teaspoon Luxardo Maraschino liqueur
Scant ½ ounce Cynar
½ ounce Bonal
¾ ounce Cocchi Vermouth di Torino
1 ounce Rittenhouse bonded rye whiskey
3 maraschino cherries, for garnish
In a chilled mixing glass, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Place
a 2-inch ice cube in a double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with 1¼-inch
ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass. Skewer the
cherries and place in the drink.
BROWN SUGAR
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A rum Manhattan with flavors of caramelized sugar
Aged Venezuelan Rum, Rye Whiskey, Cynar, Cream Sherry, Mole Bitters
2 dashes Bittermens Xocolatl Mole bitters
¾ ounce Lustau East India Solera cream sherry
¾ ounce Cynar
¾ ounce Rittenhouse bonded rye whiskey
1 ounce Diplomático Reserva Exclusiva rum
Combine all the ingredients in a mixing glass. Fill the mixing glass with ice
and stir. Strain the cocktail into a coupe.
THE BRUNSWICK
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Jonathan Armstrong
A complex, dark bitter Manhattan
Bourbon, Sweet Vermouth, Campari, Amaro Averna, Maraschino Liqueur, Angostura Bitters,
Sarsaparilla
1 dash Sarsaparilla Tincture (this page)
3 dashes Angostura bitters
1 teaspoon Luxardo Maraschino liqueur
½ ounce Amaro Averna
½ ounce Campari
½ ounce Carpano Antica Formula sweet vermouth
1½ ounces Old Grand-Dad 114 bourbon
Lemon twist, for expressing
Combine all the ingredients except the lemon twist in a mixing glass. Fill the
mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into a coupe. Express the oils
from the lemon twist over the cocktail, then discard the twist.
CAFÉ CON LECHE
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A rum-and-aquavit sour with the flavors of a cappuccino
Guayanese Rum, Aged Aquavit, Creole Shrubb, Coffee, Orgeat, Lemon, Egg White
½ ounce Cold Brew Coffee Concentrate (this page)
½ ounce Rhum Clément Créole Shrubb
¾ ounce Orgeat (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Linie aquavit
1 ounce El Dorado 15-Year rum
1 egg white
Combine all the ingredients except the egg white in a cocktail tin, then add
the egg white to the tin. Cover and dry shake to emulsify the egg white. Fill
the tin with ice, cover again, and shake. Strain the cocktail into a coupe.
CAMEO
GLASS: Single rocks
ICE: None
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A fall variation on a Sazerac
Apple Brandy, Cocchi Americano, Vermouth di Torino, Pear Eau De Vie, Yellow Chartreuse,
Aged Cachaça, Apple
¼ ounce Avuá Amburana cachaça
¼ ounce yellow Chartreuse
½ ounce Clear Creek pear brandy
½ ounce Cocchi Vermouth di Torino
¾ ounce Cocchi Americano
1 ounce Laird’s 7½-Year apple brandy
3 slices apple, for garnish
In a chilled mixing glass, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Fill
the mixing glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into a
single rocks glass. Skewer the apple slices into a fan shape and place on the rim
of the glass.
CHARLIE WATTS
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATORS: Jessica Gonzalez and Leo Robitschek
A modern tiki drink with black pepper and apricot
Aged Rhum Agricole, Batavia Arrack, Guyanese Rum, Tellicherry Black Pepper, Apricot,
Pineapple, Lemon
¼ ounce Lemon Hart 151 Demerara rum
¼ ounce Batavia Arrack van Oosten
½ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Tellicherry Black Pepper Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce pineapple juice
¾ ounce apricot juice
1½ ounces Rhum J.M Gold rum
½ ounce Seagram’s club soda, to finish
Ground black pepper, for garnish
Pineapple frond, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the club soda and garnishes in a cocktail
tin. Fill a double rocks glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the tin with ice,
cover, and shake. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass and add the
club soda. Garnish with a sprinkle of black pepper and a pineapple frond.
CIAMPINO
GLASS: Hot-cocktail
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A herbaceous, spiked hotel chocolate
Fernet-Branca, Green Chartreuse, Hot Chocolate, Angostura Cream
¼ ounce Simple Syrup (this page), for Angostura cream garnish
¼ ounce Angostura bitters, for Angostura cream garnish
1 ounce cream, for Angostura cream garnish
½ ounce green Chartreuse
¾ ounce Fernet-Branca
5 ounces Hot Chocolate Base (this page)
Combine the simple syrup, Angostura bitters, and cream in a cocktail tin,
cover, and shake until the cream thickens but is still loose enough to pour. Fill
a hot-cocktail glass with hot water in order to heat it. Combine the remaining
ingredients in a small saucepan and warm over medium heat until the cocktail
comes to a simmer. Discard the hot water in the cocktail glass, then pour in
the cocktail. Float with the Angostura cream.
CROOKED KILT
GLASS: Cobbler
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A Scotch cobbler with bittered, green pineapple notes
Blended Scotch, Islay Scotch, Green Chartreuse, Velvet Falernum, Lime, Pineapple
½ ounce pineapple juice
½ ounce John D. Taylor’s Velvet Falernum
½ ounce green Chartreuse
¾ ounce lime juice
1½ ounces J&B blended Scotch whisky
Mint plouche, for garnish
Laphroaig 10-Year Islay Scotch, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the garnishes in a cocktail tin. Fill a
cobbler glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch cubes to the tin, cover, and
whip. Strain the cocktail into the cobbler glass. Spritz the mint plouche six
times with Laphroaig from an atomizer and garnish the cocktail.
DARK HORSE
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Daniel Dirth
A rum-and-cognac Manhattan with bitter orange and cof ee
Cognac, Guatemalan Rum, Averna, Orange Curaçao, Coffee
½ ounce Cold Brew Coffee Concentrate (this page)
½ ounce Grand Marnier
¾ ounce Ron Zacapa 23 rum
¾ ounce Amaro Averna
1 ounce Pierre Ferrand Ambre Cognac
Orange twist, for expressing
In a chilled mixing glass, combine all the ingredients except the orange twist.
Fill the glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into a coupe.
Use a lit match to warm both sides of the orange twist, holding the match and
twist close to the edge of the coupe, with the match between the peel and
glass. Quickly express the orange oils from the peel so that they ignite over
the drink, then discard the twist.
DETOX-RETOX
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A silky Old-Fashioned with hints of coconut
Blended Scotch, Venezuelan Rum, Pineapple Rum, Aged Cachaça, Coconut Water, Angostura
Bitters
6 dashes Angostura bitters
1 teaspoon Avuá Amburana cachaça
¼ ounce Demerara Simple Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Plantation pineapple rum
1 ounce Diplomático Reserva Exclusiva rum
1 ounce Chivas 12-Year Scotch
1½ ounces Harmless Harvest coconut water or fresh coconut water (do not used pasteurized)
In a double rocks glass, combine all the ingredients. Add a 2-inch ice cube and
stir for 5 seconds.
DOS GARDENIAS PARA TI
GLASS: Pilsner
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A honey-and-nut dominant, rich tiki drink
Blended Scotch, Palo Cortado Sherry, Walnut, Maple, Lemon, Chocolate Bitters
4 dashes Bitter Truth chocolate bitters
1 teaspoon Nux Alpina walnut liqueur
Scant ½ ounce Grade A maple syrup
½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce Chivas 12-Year Scotch
¾ ounce Gardenia Syrup (this page)
1½ ounces Lustau Peninsula palo cortado sherry
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients. Fill a Pilsner glass with crushed
ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and whip. Strain
the cocktail into the Pilsner glass and top with additional crushed ice.
DOYERS STREET
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A bitter-orange Manhattan
Rye Whiskey, Chambery Dry Vermouth, China China, Elderflower Liqueur, Angostura Bitters
2 dashes Angostura bitters
¼ ounce St-Germain
½ ounce Bigallet China China amer liqueur
¾ ounce Dolin de Chambery Dry vermouth
1½ ounces Rittenhouse bonded rye whiskey
Combine all the ingredients in a mixing glass. Place a 2-inch ice cube in a
double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail
into the double rocks glass over the 2-inch cube.
DR. KANANGA
GLASS: Belgium
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Shaun Dunn
A nutty and rich mai tai variation
Venezuelan Rum, Jamaican Rum, Cream Sherry, Falernum, Orgeat, Cinnamon, Brown Butter,
Walnut Bitters, Coffee-Infused Angostura Bitters
2 dashes Fee Brothers black walnut bitters
1 teaspoon Ceylon Cinnamon Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce Lustau East India Solera cream sherry
½ ounce Brown Butter Falernum (this page)
½ ounce Hamilton Jamaican gold rum
¾ ounce Orgeat (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Diplomático Mantuano rum
6 dashes Coffee-Infused Angostura Bitters (this page), for garnish
Mint plouche, for garnish
Lemon wheel, for garnish
Cinnamon stick, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnishes. Fill a
Belgium glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail
tin. Cover and whip vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the Belgium glass
using a hawthorne strainer, then top with the coffee-infused Angostura bitters
and additional crushed ice. Garnish with the mint plouche, lemon wheel, and
cinnamon stick.

EL TIGRE
GLASS: Fizz
ICE: None
CREATOR: Lacy Hawkins
A tropical flip with the flavor of mole
Highlands Reposado Tequila, Aged Aquavit, Mole Bitters, Egg, Ceylon Cinnamon, Lemon,
Cane Sugar
1 whole egg
4 dashes Bittermens Xocolatl Mole bitters
¼ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
Scant ¾ ounce Ceylon Cinnamon Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Linie aquavit
1 ounce Siete Leguas reposado tequila
1 ounce Seagram’s club soda
Combine all the ingredients except the club soda in a cocktail tin. Cover the
tin and dry shake to emulsify the egg. Then fill the tin with ice, cover, and
shake again. Prime a fizz glass with the club soda. Strain the cocktail into the
fizz glass.
EN MAISON
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Shaun Dunn
A Japanese whisky Old-Fashioned with cof ee, maple, and salt
Japanese Whisky, Rye Whiskey, Amontillado Sherry, Maple Syrup, Verjus, Coffee-Infused
Angostura Bitters, Sea Salt
3 dashes Coffee-Infused Angostura Bitters (this page)
1 teaspoon Fusion verjus blanc juice
Scant ½ ounce Grade A maple syrup
½ ounce Rittenhouse bonded rye whiskey
¾ ounce Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
1 ounce Toki Japanese whisky
Pinch of Maldon sea salt, for garnish
In a chilled mixing glass, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Place
a 2-inch ice cube in a double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with 1¼-inch
ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass. Garnish with
the sea salt on top of the ice cube.
FIVE FAMILIES FRANK
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Jonathan Armstrong
An Italian-style Manhattan, as smooth as Frank in his suit
Rye Whiskey, Barolo Chinato, Amaro Averna, Rabarbaro Zucca Amaro, Maraschino Liqueur
1 teaspoon Luxardo Maraschino liqueur
¼ ounce Rabarbaro Zucca amaro
¼ ounce Amaro Averna
½ ounce Cocchi Barolo Chinato
2 ounces Rittenhouse bonded rye whiskey
Combine all the ingredients in a mixing glass. Fill the mixing glass with ice
and stir. Strain the cocktail into a coupe.
FORTUNE TELLER
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A bitter rum Manhattan
Aged Venezuelan Rums, Bonal, Cynar
½ ounce Cynar
½ ounce Bonal
1 ounce Santa Teresa 1796 rum
1 ounce Diplomático Reserva Exclusiva rum
Combine all the ingredients in a mixing glass. Place a 2-inch ice cube in a
double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail
into the double rocks glass over the 2-inch cube.
FORTY THIEVES
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Gino Pellarin
A whiskey sour with bitter fruit notes
Rye Whiskey, Amaro Nonino, Amaro Ciociaro, Angostura Bitters, Ginger, Pineapple, Lemon
1 dash Angostura bitters
½ ounce Ginger Lime Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce pineapple juice
½ ounce Amaro Ciociaro
½ ounce Amaro Nonino Quintessentia
1 ounce Rittenhouse bonded rye whiskey
Combine all the ingredients in a cocktail tin. Place a 2-inch ice cube in a
double rocks glass. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and shake. Strain the cocktail
into the double rocks glass.
FOXTROT
GLASS: Pilsner
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A rye mai tai with tropical fruit
Bourbon, Rye Whiskey, Velvet Falernum, Orgeat, Passionfruit, Vanilla, Lime, Angostura Bitters
7 dashes Angostura bitters
¼ ounce Vanilla Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce John D. Taylor’s Velvet Falernum
¼ ounce Passionfruit Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce Orgeat (this page)
¾ ounce lime juice
1 ounce Rittenhouse bonded rye whiskey
1 ounce Old Forester 100 bourbon
6 dashes Coffee-Infused Angostura Bitters (this page), for garnish
Mint plouche, for garnish
Grated nutmeg, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnishes. Fill a Pilsner
glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover
and whip. Strain the cocktail into the Pilsner glass, then top with the coffeeinfused Angostura bitters and additional crushed ice. Garnish with the mint
plouche and grated nutmeg.
GENTLEMEN’S EXCHANGE
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A Manhattan variation with notes of cof ee and chocolate
Rye Whiskey, Suze, Foro Amaro, Vermouth di Torino, Coffee, Absinthe, Angostura Bitters
2 dashes Angostura bitters
4 dashes Pernod Absinthe
1 teaspoon Cold Brew Coffee Concentrate (this page)
½ ounce Foro Amaro
½ ounce Suze
¾ ounce Cocchi Vermouth di Torino
1½ ounces Rittenhouse bonded rye whiskey
Grapefruit twist, for expressing
Combine all the ingredients except the grapefruit twist in a mixing glass. Place
a 2-inch ice cube in a double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with ice and
stir. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass. Express the oils from the
grapefruit twist over the cocktail, and discard the twist.
GIMME A BEET
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
An earthy whiskey sour with strawberries
Rye Whiskey, Aged Aquavit, Chambery Dry Vermouth, Beet, Strawberry, Jalapeño, Vanilla
1 medium strawberry, for muddling
1 teaspoon Vanilla Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce beet juice
½ ounce Jalapeño-Infused Agave Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Dolin de Chambery Dry vermouth
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Linie aquavit
¾ ounce Rittenhouse bonded rye whiskey
In a cocktail tin, muddle the strawberry, then add all the remaining
ingredients. Place a 2-inch ice cube in a double rocks glass. Fill the cocktail tin
with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Cover and shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into
the double rocks glass.
HAIR TRIGGER
GLASS: Cobbler
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Jessica Gonzalez
A bitter, minty, and complex dark and stormy
Aged Venezuelan Rum, Fernet-Branca, Angostura Bitters, Ginger, Lime, Cucumber, Mint
2 long cucumber slices, 1 for shaking and 1 for garnish
Scant ½ ounce Angostura bitters
½ ounce Ginger Lime Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce Spicy Ginger Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lime juice
¾ ounce Fernet-Branca
¾ ounce Pampero Aniversario rum
Mint plouche, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the cucumber garnish and the mint
plouche in a cocktail tin. Fill a cobbler glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-
inch ice cubes to the tin, cover, and whip. Strain the cocktail into the cobbler
glass and top with additional crushed ice. Garnish with the mint plouche and
the remaining cucumber slice.
JIVE TURKEY
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Jessica Gonzalez
A lighter-style Manhattan with a hint of floralness
Rye Whiskey, Bourbon, Chambery Dry Vermouth, Amaro Ciociaro, Elderflower Liqueur,
Angostura Bitters
1 dash Angostura bitters
¼ ounce St-Germain
¾ ounce Amaro Ciociaro
¾ ounce Dolin de Chambery Dry vermouth
¾ ounce Buffalo Trace bourbon
1 ounce Wild Turkey 101 whiskey
Lemon twist, for expressing
Combine all the ingredients except the lemon twist in a mixing glass. Fill the
mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into a coupe. Express the oils
from the lemon twist over the cocktail, then discard the twist.
KING’S ARMS
GLASS: Single rocks
ICE: None
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A caraway-and-cacao Sazerac variation
Rye Whiskey, Aged Aquavit, Amaro Averna, Crème de Cacao, Coffee
¼ ounce Cold Brew Coffee Concentrate (this page)
¼ ounce De Kuyper crème de cacao white
¾ ounce Amaro Averna
1 ounce Linie aquavit
1 ounce Old Overholt rye whiskey
Combine all the ingredients in a mixing glass. Fill the glass with 1¼-inch ice
cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into a single rocks glass.
KINGSMAN
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Nathan O’Neill
A cereal-malt Old-Fashioned with banana
Aged Genever, Rye Whiskey, Agricole Rhum, Oloroso Sherry, Falernum, Brown Butter,
Banana Liqueur
1 teaspoon Giffard banana liqueur
¼ ounce Rhum J.M Blanc Agricole Martinique 100 Proof rum
½ ounce Brown Butter Falernum (this page)
½ ounce Lustau Don Nuño Oloroso sherry
½ ounce Woodford Reserve rye whiskey
1 ounce Old Duff single malt genever
Combine all the ingredients in a mixing glass. Place a 2-inch ice cube in a
double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail
into the double rocks glass.
LITTLE DRAGON
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A complex Old-Fashioned with salted plums and dark chocolate
Cacao Nib–Infused Cognac, Pineau des Charentes, Genever, Aged Aquavit, Plum Vinegar,
Umeboshi
1 teaspoon Demerara Simple Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce Taiwanese plum vinegar
½ ounce Linie aquavit
½ ounce Bols genever
¾ ounce Paul-Marie & Fils Pineau des Charentes
¾ ounce Cacao Nib–Infused Pierre Ferrand 1840 Cognac (this page)
Umeboshi paste, for garnish
In a mixing glass, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Using a
brush, paint a brushstroke of umeboshi paste in a double rocks glass, starting at
the inside bottom and going straight up to the top, then paint from the top of
the glass one-third of the way down the front, following the same line you
created on the inside. Place a 2-inch ice cube in the double rocks glass. Fill the
mixing glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into the
double rocks glass using a hawthorne strainer.
LITTLE RED ROOSTER
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATORS: Leo Robitschek and Jessica Gonzalez
A fruit-forward whiskey sour
Irish Whiskey, Barolo Chinato, Strega, Aperol, Thai Bird Chile, Strawberry, Lemon
Small strawberry, for muddling
½ ounce Thai Bird Chile–Infused Aperol (this page)
½ ounce Strega
¾ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Cocchi Barolo Chinato
1 ounce Jameson Irish whiskey
Muddle the strawberry in a cocktail tin and then add the remaining
ingredients. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and shake. Strain the cocktail into a
coupe.
MADAME LAVEAU
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Jim Kearns
A herbaceous rum Manhattan
Aged Guyanese Rum, Aged Aquavit, Amontillado Sherry, Pale Cream Sherry, Strega, Angostura
Bitters, Absinthe
1 dash Angostura bitters
¼ ounce Strega
½ ounce Alvear Pale cream sherry
½ ounce Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
¾ ounce Linie aquavit
¾ ounce El Dorado 15-Year rum
Pernod Absinthe, as a rinse
Orange twist, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the absinthe and orange twist in a mixing
glass. Rinse a coupe glass with six sprays of absinthe from an atomizer. Fill the
mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into the rinsed coupe. Flame
the orange twist over the drink and place it skin side up in the glass.
MADISON PARK SMASH
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A richer-style smash named after Madison Park
Cognac, Royal Combier, Angostura Bitters, Lemon, Demerara, Mint
¼ ounce Demerara Simple Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Royal Combier
1 ounce Jean Grosperrin VSOP Cognac
5 mint leaves
Mint plouche, for garnish
6 dashes Angostura bitters, for garnish
Combine the demerara syrup, lemon juice, Royal Combier, and Cognac in a
cocktail tin. Clap the mint leaves between your hands to release their oils,
then drop them in the tin. Fill a double rocks glass with crushed ice. Add
three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the tin, cover, and gently whip to chill and aerate
the cocktail without overly bruising the mint leaves. Strain the cocktail into
the double rocks glass. Fill the glass with more crushed ice and make a mound
of crushed ice up over the rim of the glass. Insert straws and the mint plouche
beside the mound, just inside the glass. Decorate the ice dome with the
Angostura bitters.
MANHATTAN MILK PUNCH
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A clarified milk punch with flavors of a tropical Manhattan cocktail
Rye Whiskey, Venezuelan Rum, Sweet Vermouth, Foro Amaro, Squash, Clarified Milk,
Pineapple, Lemon, Spices
SERVES 3
3 ounces whole milk
1 ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Kabocha Squash Syrup (this page)
1 ounce Foro Amaro
1 ounce Rittenhouse bonded rye whiskey
1 ounce Diplomático Reserva Exclusiva rum
1½ ounces pineapple juice
1½ ounces Dolin de Chambery Rouge vermouth
In a small saucepan, warm the milk over medium heat, stirring continuously,
until it starts steaming. Make sure that it doesn’t boil or burn. Remove from
the heat and add the lemon juice. Give the mixture a quick stir; it should start
curdling. In a large container, combine the curdled milk with all the
remaining ingredients. Hang a superbag over an empty container. If you don’t
have a superbag, get a large toddy filter and hang it over the large container,
or cover a chinois with a few layers of cheesecloth. Pour the liquid into the
superbag, when the liquid that is coming out starts running clear you should
have a layer of milk curds in the superbag. Make sure you do not break this
layer, as it’s the clarification layer of the punch. Allow the remaining liquid to
drip through and clarify. For each serving, place a 2-inch ice cube in a double
rocks glass and pour in about 4 ounces of the milk punch.
MASS A-PEELLE
GLASS: Highball
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A delicate, light, fragrant cobbler with savory squash notes, named after Billy Peelle
Venezuelan Rum, Amontillado Sherry, Squash, Lemon, Spices, Angostura Bitters
2 dashes Angostura bitters
1 teaspoon Cane Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Kabocha Squash Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce Diplomático Reserva Exclusiva rum
1½ ounces Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
Lemon wheel, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the lemon wheel in a cocktail tin. Fill a
highball glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the tin, cover,
and whip vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass. Top with
additional crushed ice to reach the rim of the glass. Insert the lemon wheel
along the back of the glass. Mound with additional crushed ice so that it rests
against the citrus wheel high above the rim of the glass.
MATCHLOCK
GLASS: Snifter
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Jonathan Armstrong
A high-proof whiskey zombie variation
Bourbon, Rye Whiskey, Angostura Bitters, Absinthe, Ginger, Vanilla Syrup, Grenadine, Lemon,
Grapefruit
2 dashes Pernod Absinthe
3 dashes Angostura bitters
¼ ounce Grenadine (this page)
¼ ounce Ginger Lime Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Spicy Ginger Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Vanilla Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce grapefruit juice
1 ounce Old Overholt rye whiskey
1 ounce Rittenhouse bonded rye whiskey
1 ounce Knob Creek Single Barrel Reserve bourbon
Mint plouche, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the mint in a cocktail tin. Fill a snifter
with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the tin, cover, and whip.
Strain the cocktail into the snifter and top with additional crushed ice. Garnish
with the mint plouche.

MILES AHEAD
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A herbaceous whiskey sour with cardamom
Rye Whiskey, Aged Aquavit, Chambery Blanc Vermouth, Amontillado Sherry, Velvet
Falernum, Lemon, Honey, Cardamom, Orange Bitters
2 cardamom pods, for muddling
2 dashes House Orange Bitters (this page)
¼ ounce Honey Syrup (this page)
½ ounce John D. Taylor’s Velvet Falernum
½ ounce Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
½ ounce Dolin de Chambery Blanc vermouth
½ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Linie aquavit
¾ ounce Rittenhouse bonded rye whiskey
In a cocktail tin, lightly muddle the cardamom pods, then add the remaining
ingredients. Fill the tin with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Cover and shake vigorously.
Strain the cocktail into a chilled coupe.
MOTT AND MULBERRY
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A whiskey sour that tastes like mulled cider
Rye Whiskey, Amaro Abano, Honeycrisp Apple, Lemon, Demerara
Scant ½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce Demerara Simple Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce Honeycrisp apple cider
¾ ounce Luxardo Amaro Abano
1 ounce Old Overholt rye whiskey
3 slices red apple, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the garnish in a cocktail tin. Fill a double
rocks glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and shake.
Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass. Skewer the apple slices into a
fan shape and place on the rim of the glass.
MYNAH BIRD
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Nathan O’Neill
A stirred tiki drink with the flavors of a Jungle Bird cocktail
Guyanese Rum, Blackstrap Rum, Sweet Vermouth, Campari, Crème de Cacao, Mole Bitters
5 dashes Bittermens Xocolatl Mole bitters
1 teaspoon De Kuyper crème de cacao
¼ ounce Cruzan Black Strap rum
½ ounce Campari
¾ ounce Carpano Antica Formula sweet vermouth
1 ounce El Dorado 15-Year rum
In a chilled mixing glass, combine all the ingredients. Place a 2-inch ice cube
in a double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir.
Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass.
NORTH SEA OIL
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A spirit-forward cocktail with smoke, bitter orange, chocolate, and caraway…doesn’t quite fit any box
Aged Aquavit, Cocchi Americano, Islay Scotch, Triple Sec
¼ ounce Combier triple sec
½ ounce Laphroaig 10-Year Islay Scotch
¾ ounce Cocchi Americano
1½ ounces Linie aquavit
Grapefruit twist, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the grapefruit twist in a mixing glass. Place
a 2-inch cube in a double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with ice and stir.
Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass over the 2-inch cube. Express
the oils from the grapefruit twist over the cocktail, and place it in the drink.
OLD ALHAMBRA
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A rich Scotch Manhattan with smoke and cacao
Islay Scotch, Chambery Blanc Vermouth, Cream Sherry, Crème de Cacao
½ ounce Marie Brizard crème de cacao white
½ ounce Lustau East India Solera cream sherry
¾ ounce Dolin de Chambery Blanc vermouth
1½ ounces Laphroaig 10-Year Islay Scotch
Grapefruit twist, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the grapefruit twist in a mixing glass. Fill
the mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into a coupe. Express the
oils from the grapefruit twist over the cocktail, and place it in the drink.
ORIGINAL SIN
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A fig-forward, rich brandy sour with hints of young coconut
Brandy de Jerez, Fig Leaf, Honey, Lemon, Aromatic Bitters
4 dashes Bitter Truth aromatic bitters
1 teaspoon Honey Syrup (this page)
Scant ½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce Fig Leaf Syrup (this page)
Heavy 1½ ounces Lustau Brandy de Jerez Solera Reserva
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients. Place a 2-inch ice cube in a
double rocks glass. Fill the cocktail tin with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Cover and
shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass.
PANDAN EXPRESS
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Nathan O’Neill
A complex, coconutty, and easy-drinking Scotch sour with layers of flavor
Blended Scotch, Aged Cachaça, Pale Cream Sherry, Falernum, Brown Butter, Pandan, Orgeat,
Lemon, Coconut Water
1 barspoon Hamilton pimento dram
¼ ounce Tuaca
½ ounce Brown Butter Falernum (this page)
½ ounce Orgeat (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce Avuá Amburana cachaça
½ ounce Alvear Pale cream sherry
¾ ounce Harmless Harvest coconut water or fresh coconut water (do not used pasteurized)
1 ounce Pandan-Infused Johnnie Walker Black Label Scotch (this page)
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients. Place a 2-inch ice cube in a
double rocks glass. Fill the cocktail tin with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Cover and
shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass.
PICO AND ROBINSON
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A drink inspired by Leo’s grandmother’s Passover macaroons, with hints of cof ee
Bourbon, Yellow Chartreuse, Punt e Mes, Chambery Blanc Vermouth, Coconut, Coffee, Sea
Salt
5 drops Saline Solution (this page)
1 teaspoon Cold Brew Coffee Concentrate (this page)
½ ounce Dolin de Chambery Blanc vermouth
¾ ounce Carpano Punt e Mes vermouth
¾ ounce Yellow Chartreuse
¾ ounce Coconut-Infused Michter’s Bourbon (this page)
Pinch of Maldon sea salt, for garnish
In a chilled mixing glass, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Place
a 2-inch ice cube in a double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with 1¼-inch
ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass. Garnish with
the sea salt on top of the ice cube.
PURPLE DRAGON
GLASS: Pilsner
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
An earthy whiskey piña colada
Rye Whiskey, Bourbon, Angostura Bitters, Dragon Carrots, Coconut, Pineapple, Absinthe
2 dashes Pernod Absinthe
½ ounce pineapple juice
¾ ounce purple dragon carrot juice
¾ ounce Coconut Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce Angostura bitters
¾ ounce Rittenhouse bonded rye whiskey
¾ ounce Old Forester 100 bourbon
Cinnamon stick, for garnish
3 pineapple fronds, for garnish
Lime zest, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the garnishes in a cocktail tin. Fill a Pilsner
glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin, cover,
and whip. Strain the cocktail into the Pilsner glass and top with additional
crushed ice. Briefly light the top of a cinnamon stick until it smokes and place
it into the drink for garnish. Garnish with the pineapple fronds and lime zest.
REPOSSESSION
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A tequila sour with stone fruit and smoke
Highlands Tequila, Amontillado Sherry, Apricot Liqueur, Mezcal, Lemon, Cane Sugar
¼ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce Rothman & Winter apricot liqueur
¾ ounce Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
1 ounce Don Julio reposado tequila
Sombra mezcal, to finish
Combine all the ingredients except the mezcal in a cocktail tin. Place a 2-inch
ice cube in a double rocks glass. Fill the cocktail tin with ice, cover, and
shake. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass. Spritz the surface of the
cocktail six times with Sombra mezcal from an atomizer.
RINGO
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Joey Smith
A lightly spiced whiskey sour with caraway, apple, and cucumber
Japanese Rice Whiskey, Aged Aquavit, Rye Whiskey, Apple, Mustard, Cucumber, Absinthe
1 cucumber slice
2 dashes Vieux Pontarlier absinthe
1 teaspoon dell’Erborista amaro
¼ ounce John D. Taylor’s Velvet Falernum
½ ounce Agave Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Wild Turkey 101 rye whiskey
½ ounce O.P. Anderson aquavit
½ ounce lime juice
¾ ounce green apple juice
¾ ounce Mustard Seed-Infused Kikori Whiskey (this page)
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients. Place a 2-inch ice cube in a
double rocks glass. Fill the cocktail tin with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Cover and
shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass.
RIPTIDE
GLASS: Snifter
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Jack Schramm
An anise-forward mai tai variation
Batavia Arrack, Jamaican Rum, Green Chartreuse, Maraschino Liqueur, Orgeat, Passionfruit,
Pineapple, Lime, Absinthe
2 dashes Pernod Absinthe
1 teaspoon Luxardo Maraschino liqueur
¼ ounce Passionfruit Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Orgeat (this page)
½ ounce lime juice
½ ounce pineapple juice
½ ounce green Chartreuse
¾ ounce Hamilton Jamaican gold rum
¾ ounce Batavia Arrack van Oosten
6 dashes Coffee-Infused Angostura Bitters (this page), for garnish
Mint plouche, for garnish
Cucumber slice, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnishes. Fill a snifter
with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and
whip. Strain the cocktail into the snifter glass, then top with the coffee-infused
Angostura bitters and additional crushed ice. Garnish with the mint plouche
and cucumber slice.
ROCK AND A HARD PLACE
GLASS: Nick and Nora
ICE: None
CREATOR: Alisa Bobcat Robovsky
A nutty Manhattan
Rye Whiskey, Chambery Dry Vermouth, Sweet Vermouth, Amaro Nonino, Walnut
2 dashes Fee Brothers black walnut bitters
1 teaspoon Nux Alpina walnut liqueur
½ ounce Amaro Nonino Quintessentia
½ ounce Carpano Antica Formula sweet vermouth
½ ounce Dolin de Chambery Dry vermouth
1½ ounces Rittenhouse bonded rye whiskey
Combine all the ingredients in a mixing glass. Fill the mixing glass with ice
and stir. Strain the cocktail into a Nick and Nora glass.
THE ROOTS
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
An earthy kitchen-centric mai tai with chocolate
Aged Aquavit, Chambery Blanc Vermouth, Cocchi Americano, Celery Root, Chamomile, White
Balsamic Vinegar, Chocolate Bitters
6-inch celery stalk, for garnish
2 dashes Bitter Truth chocolate bitters
10 dashes white balsamic vinegar
1 barspoon Chamomile Honey Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce Cocchi Americano
¾ ounce Celery Root–Infused Dolin de Chambery Blanc Vermouth (this page)
1 ounce Linie aquavit
Using a vegetable peeler, shave a strip from the celery stalk, starting at the top
of the stalk and pulling down until you reach the bottom, creating a celery
curl. Roll the curl tightly and place in ice water. In a chilled mixing glass,
combine the remaining ingredients. Place a 2-inch ice cube in a double rocks
glass. Fill the mixing glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail
into the double rocks glass. Garnish with the celery curl on top of the ice
cube.
SATAN’S CIRCUS
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A rye whiskey sour with chile, cherry, and bitter orange
Rye Whiskey, Thai Bird Chile, Aperol, Barolo Chinato, Lemon
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Barolo Chinato
¾ ounce Thai Bird Chile–Infused Aperol (this page)
2 ounces Old Overholt rye whiskey
Combine all the ingredients in a cocktail tin. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and
shake. Strain the cocktail into a coupe.
SCOTCH DUMPLING
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Josh Shweesti Ben-Yaish
An apple brandy sour with aromatic pepper
Apple Brandy, Islay Scotch, Amaro Montenegro, Black Pepper, Lemon, Egg White
¾ ounce Tellicherry Black Pepper Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Amaro Montenegro
¾ ounce Laphroaig 10-Year Islay Scotch
1 ounce Laird’s apple brandy
1 egg white
Combine all the ingredients except the egg white in a cocktail tin, then add
the egg white to the tin. Cover the tin and dry shake to emulsify the egg
white. Fill the tin with ice, cover again, and shake. Strain the cocktail into a
coupe.
SMOKING JACKET
GLASS: Nick and Nora
ICE: None
CREATOR: Shaun Dunn
A Manhattan variation with smoked tea
Bourbon, Marseilles Dry Vermouth, Crème de Cacao, Triple Sec, Campari, Lapsang Souchong
Tea
¼ ounce Campari
¼ ounce Combier triple sec
½ ounce Lapsang Souchong–Infused De Kuyper Crème de Cacao (this page)
¾ ounce Noilly Prat Original Dry vermouth
1 ounce Buffalo Trace bourbon
In a mixing glass, combine all the ingredients. Fill the mixing glass with 1¼-
inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into a Nick and Nora glass using a
hawthorne strainer.
SONS OF LIBERTY
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A fall sour with apple and Earl Grey
Bourbon, Apple Brandy, Amaro Abano, Earl Grey, Lemon, Egg White
¼ ounce Luxardo Amaro Abano
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Earl Grey Syrup (this page)
1 ounce Laird’s apple brandy
1 ounce Jim Beam Black bourbon
1 egg white
Ground Tellicherry black pepper, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the egg white and black pepper in a
cocktail tin, then add the egg white to the tin. Cover the tin and dry shake to
emulsify the egg white. Fill the tin with ice, cover again, and shake. Strain the
cocktail into a coupe. When the egg white settles, add a pinch of Tellicherry
pepper to the top of the cocktail in a half-moon shape. Swirl the coupe a few
times to stretch the half-moon into a spiral.
SPICED CARROT COLADA (COLD)
GLASS: Pilsner
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A carrot cake–flavored piña colada
Angostura Bitters, Blackstrap Rum, Foro Amaro, Coconut, Carrots, Pineapple
1 barspoon Cane Syrup (this page)
½ ounce pineapple juice
½ ounce Foro Amaro
½ ounce Cruzan Black Strap rum
¾ ounce carrot juice
1 ounce Coconut Syrup (this page)
1 ounce Angostura bitters
3 pineapple fronds, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the pineapple fronds in a cocktail tin. Fill a
Pilsner glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin,
cover, and whip. Strain the cocktail into the Pilsner glass and top with
additional crushed ice. Garnish with the pineapple fronds.

SPICED CARROT COLADA (HOT)
GLASS: Hot-cocktail
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A warm carrot cake–flavored piña colada
Angostura Bitters, Blackstrap Rum, Foro Amaro, Coconut, Carrots, Pineapple
½ ounce pineapple juice
½ ounce Foro Amaro
½ ounce Cruzan Black Strap rum
¾ ounce carrot juice
1 ounce water
1 ounce Coconut Syrup (this page)
1 ounce Angostura bitters
Fill a hot-cocktail glass with hot water in order to heat it. Combine all the
ingredients in a small saucepan and warm over medium heat until the cocktail
comes to a simmer. Discard the hot water in the cocktail glass, then pour in
the cocktail.
SPRING STING
GLASS: Nick and Nora
ICE: None
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A stirred savory grasshopper
Cognac, Cocchi Americano, Islay Scotch, Chareau, Nardini Amaro, Cucumber
1 teaspoon Nardini amaro
½ ounce Chareau
½ ounce Laphroaig 10-Year Scotch
¾ ounce Cocchi Americano
1 ounce Pierre Ferrand 1840 Cognac
¼ cucumber
In a mixing glass, combine all the ingredients except the cucumber. Using a
melon baller, cut a dime-size ball out of the cucumber. Fill the mixing glass
with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into a Nick and Nora glass
using a hawthorne strainer. Skewer the cucumber ball and garnish the
cocktail.
START ME UP
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATORS: Leo Robitschek and Jessica Gonzalez
A whiskey sour with honey and ginger
Bourbon, Trinidadian Rum, Strega, Orange Bitters, Honey, Ginger, Lemon
4 dashes House Orange Bitters (this page)
¼ ounce Spicy Ginger Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce Honey Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Strega
½ ounce Scarlet Ibis rum
¾ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Elijah Craig 12-Year bourbon
Combine all the ingredients in a cocktail tin. Place a 2-inch ice cube in a
double rocks glass. Fill the tin with ice cubes, cover, and shake. Strain the
cocktail into the double rocks glass.
TAXI DANCER
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A spicy whiskey sour with red wine
Bonded Rye Whiskey, Bourbon, Thai Bird Chile, Aperol, Strega, Barolo Chinato, Lemon
¼ ounce Simple Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Strega
½ ounce Cocchi Barolo Chinato
½ ounce Elijah Craig 12-Year bourbon
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Thai Bird Chile–Infused Aperol (this page)
¾ ounce Rittenhouse bonded rye whiskey
Combine all the ingredients in a cocktail tin. Fill the tin with ice cubes, cover,
and shake. Strain the cocktail into a coupe.
THICK AS THIEVES
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Alex Lerman
A rum Old-Fashioned with banana and cacao
Guyanese Rum, Irish Whiskey, Amontillado and Cream Sherry, Crème de Cacao, Banana
Liqueur, Maple Syrup, Absinthe, Chocolate Bitters
2 dashes Bitter Truth chocolate bitters
3 dashes Pernod Absinthe
1 teaspoon Grade A maple syrup
1 teaspoon Giffard banana liqueur
¼ ounce De Kuyper crème de cacao
¼ ounce Lustau East India Solera cream sherry
¼ ounce Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
½ ounce Connemara Irish whiskey
¾ ounce Jameson Black Barrel Irish whiskey
¾ ounce El Dorado 15-Year rum
In a chilled mixing glass, combine all the ingredients. Place a 2-inch ice cube
in a double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir.
Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass.
TINSELTOWN REBELLION
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Tyler Caffall
An agricole rum punch with passionfruit and melon
Haitian Rhum, Jamaican Rum, Aged Cachaça, Allspice Dram, Yogurt, Passionfruit
Cucumber slice, for muddling, plus whole-length cucumber slice, for garnish
1 teaspoon St. Elizabeth allspice dram
¼ ounce Passionfruit Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce Smith & Cross Navy Strength Jamaican rum
Scant ½ ounce lime juice
½ ounce Tellicherry Black Pepper Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Avuá Amburana cachaça
1 ounce Green Tea Yogurt Syrup (this page)
1 ounce Santa Claus melon juice
1 ounce Boukman rhum
Mint plouche, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, muddle the cucumber slice, then add all the remaining
ingredients except the garnishes. Place the cucumber garnish inside a highball
glass in a straight line, starting from the bottom straight to the top. Fill the
glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the cocktail tin with 1¼-inch ice cubes.
Cover and shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass. Garnish
with the mint plouche.

TIVOLI
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Nathan O’Neill
A stirred celery-añejo Old-Fashioned; savory with a touch of acidity
Añejo Tequila, Amaro Nonino, Unicum Plum, Cocchi Americano, Palo Cortado Sherry, White
Balsamic Vinegar, Celery
6-inch celery stalk, for garnish, plus 1-inch celery stalk, for muddling
7 dashes white balsamic vinegar
½ ounce Lustau Peninsula palo cortado sherry
½ ounce Zwack Unicum Plum
½ ounce Siembra Azul añejo tequila
¾ ounce Cocchi Americano
1 ounce Amaro Nonino Quintessentia
Using a vegetable peeler, shave a strip from the 6-inch celery stalk, starting at
the top of the stalk and pulling down until you reach the bottom, creating a
celery curl. Roll the curl tightly and place in ice water. In a chilled mixing
glass, lightly muddle the 1-inch celery piece, then add all the remaining
ingredients except the garnish. Place a 2-inch ice cube in a double rocks glass.
Fill the mixing glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into
the double rocks glass. Garnish with the celery curl on top of the ice cube.
TOPANGA
GLASS: Pilsner
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: David Bonatesta
A tequila tiki cocktail with chai and yogurt
Añejo Tequila, Aged Cachaça, Chai, Yogurt, Turmeric, Lemon, Angostura Bitters
2 dashes Angostura bitters
½ ounce Agave Syrup (this page)
Scant ¾ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Chai-Turmeric Yogurt Syrup (this page)
1 ounce Avuá Amburana cachaça
1 ounce Siete Leguas añejo tequila
Lime zest, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Fill a Pilsner
glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover
and whip. Strain the cocktail into the Pilsner glass and top with additional
crushed ice. Garnish with lime zest.
VAGABOND
GLASS: Single rocks
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A smoky Scotch Old-Fashioned with hints of anise
Islay Scotch, Rye Whiskey, Bonal, Amontillado Sherry, Pedro Ximénez Sherry, Absinthe
Scant ½ ounce Lustau San Emilio Pedro Ximénez sherry
½ ounce Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
½ ounce Bonal
¾ ounce Rittenhouse bonded rye whiskey
1 ounce Laphroaig 10-Year Islay Scotch
Pernod Absinthe, as a rinse
Lemon twist, for expressing
Combine all the ingredients except the absinthe and lemon twist in a mixing
glass. Rinse a single rocks glass with six sprays of absinthe from an atomizer.
Fill the mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into the single rocks
glass. Express the oils from the lemon twist over the cocktail, then discard the
twist.
WHEELER AND WILSON
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A floral, springtime Manhattan
Bourbon, Aged Venezuelan Rum, Amontillado Sherry,Chambery Blanc Vermouth, Amaro
Montenegro
2 whole-length cucumber slices, 1 for mixing and 1 for garnish
½ ounce Amaro Montenegro
½ ounce Dolin de Chambery Blanc vermouth
½ ounce Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
¾ ounce Diplomático Reserva Exclusiva rum
1 ounce Old Forester 100 bourbon
Combine all the ingredients except the cucumber garnish in a mixing glass.
Fill the mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into a coupe. Skewer
the remaining cucumber slice into a wave shape and garnish the drink.
WIT THE COCO
GLASS: Highball
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A piña colada that is herbaceous and spirituous
Aged Aquavit, Green Chartreuse, Velvet Falernum, Coconut, Lime, Pineapple
¼ ounce John D. Taylor’s Velvet Falernum
½ ounce green Chartreuse
½ ounce Coconut Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lime juice
¾ ounce pineapple juice
¾ ounce Linie aquavit
6 dashes Angostura bitters, for garnish
2 pineapple fronds, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnishes. Fill a
highball glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail
tin. Cover and whip vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass. Add
the Angostura bitters and top with additional crushed ice. Garnish with the
pineapple fronds.


ADONIS
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A sherry Manhattan with fall spice
Chai, Vermouth di Torino, Fino and Amontillado Sherry
4 dashes House Orange Bitters (this page)
¼ ounce Lustau East India Solera cream sherry
½ ounce Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
1 ounce Lustau Jarana fino sherry
1½ ounces Chai-Infused Cocchi Vermouth di Torino (this page)
In a chilled mixing glass, combine all the ingredients. Fill the mixing glass
with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into a chilled coupe.
AMARETTO SOUR
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
Our take on a guilty pleasure, an almond sour with a touch of bitterness
Amaretto, Campari, Lemon, Orange, Egg White
1 egg white
1 teaspoon Simple Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce Campari
½ ounce orange juice
¾ ounce lemon juice
2 ounces Disaronno amaretto
3 drops Angostura bitters, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Seal and dry
shake to emulsify the egg white into the cocktail. Carefully open the tin and
fill with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Seal it again and shake vigorously. Strain the
cocktail into a chilled coupe using a hawthorne strainer and a fine tea strainer.
Once the egg white settles, use a Japanese bitters dasher to carefully dot the
Angostura bitters around the rim of the glass. Use a cocktail pick to connect
the dots into a half-circle.
APEROL SOUR
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A bitter and citrus-forward sour with hints of strawberry
Aperol, Lemon, Egg White
1 egg white
½ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
1 ounce lemon juice
2 ounces Aperol
3 drops Peychaud’s bitters, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Seal and dry
shake to emulsify the egg white into the cocktail. Carefully open the tin and
fill with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Seal it again and shake vigorously. Strain the
cocktail into a chilled coupe using a hawthorne strainer and a fine tea strainer.
Once the egg white settles, use a Japanese bitters dasher to carefully dot the
Peychaud’s bitters around the rim of the glass. Use a cocktail pick to connect
the dots into a half-circle.
BADMINTON CUP
GLASS: Highball
ICE: Crushed
A variation on a refreshing sangria
Pinot Noir, Moscatel Sherry, Maraschino Liqueur, Lemon, Mint
2 cucumber slices, 1 for muddling and 1 for garnish
5 mint leaves, for muddling
½ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Luxardo Maraschino liqueur
½ ounce Seagram’s club soda
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Lustau Emilín Moscatel sherry
1½ ounces Pinot Noir
Mint plouche, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, muddle a cucumber slice and the mint leaves, then add the
remaining ingredients except the garnishes. Fill a highball glass with crushed
ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the tin. Cover and whip. Strain the
cocktail into the highball glass and top with additional crushed ice. Garnish
with the mint plouche and remaining cucumber slice inserted down the side
of the glass at an angle.
BAMBOO
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A nutty, umami-forward sherry Manhattan
Amontillado Sherry, Cream Sherry, Chambery Dry Vermouth, Angostura Bitters, Orange Bitters
2 dashes Angostura bitters
4 dashes House Orange Bitters (this page)
¾ ounce Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
1 ounce Lustau East India Solera cream sherry
1½ ounces Dolin de Chambery Dry vermouth
Lemon twist, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the lemon twist in a mixing glass. Fill the
mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into a coupe. Express the oils
from the lemon twist over the glass, and insert it in the cocktail.
BIJOU
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A herbaceous, bitter, and rich martini
Plymouth Gin, Sweet Vermouth, Green Chartreuse, Orange Bitters
2 dashes House Orange Bitters (this page)
¾ ounce green Chartreuse
1 ounce Carpano Antica Formula sweet vermouth
1½ ounces Plymouth gin
Lemon twist, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the lemon twist in a mixing glass. Fill the
mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into a coupe. Express the oils
from the lemon twist over the glass, and insert it in the cocktail.
BIJOU RESERVE
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A more refined take on a Bijou
Aged London Dry Gin, Sweet Vermouth, Yellow Chartreuse, Green Chartreuse
¼ ounce yellow Chartreuse V.E.P.
¼ ounce green Chartreuse V.E.P.
1 ounce Carpano Antica Formula vermouth
1½ ounces Burrough’s Reserve gin
In a chilled mixing glass, combine all the ingredients. Fill the mixing glass
with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into a chilled coupe.
BLINKER
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A whiskey sour with grapefruit and raspberry
Rye Whiskey, Islay Scotch, Raspberry, Grapefruit, Lime
¼ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce Raspberry Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lime juice
1 ounce grapefruit juice
1½ ounces George Dickel rye whiskey
6 spritzes Laphroaig 10-Year Scotch, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Fill the tin
with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Cover and shake. Strain the cocktail into a chilled
coupe. Garnish with the Scotch.
BLUE HAWAIIAN
GLASS: Pilsner
ICE: Crushed
A vegetal variation on a tropical 1950s classic
Guatemalan Rum, Green Chartreuse, Bitter Orange, Coconut, Pineapple, Lime
¼ ounce Rhum Clément Créole Shrubb infused with 1 drop organic blue food coloring
½ ounce green Chartreuse
½ ounce Coconut Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lime juice
¾ ounce pineapple juice
¾ ounce Ron Zacapa 23 rum
5 dashes Angostura bitters, for garnish
5 drops Peychaud’s bitters, for garnish
3 pineapple fronds, for garnish
2 Brandied Cherries (this page), for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnishes. Fill a Pilsner
glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover
and whip. Strain the cocktail into the Pilsner glass, add both bitters, and top
with additional crushed ice. Garnish with the pineapple fronds and cherries.

BRANDY CRUSTA
GLASS: Champagne flute
ICE: Crushed
A Cognac sour with hints of cherry
VSOP Cognac, Triple Sec, Maraschino Liqueur, Angostura Bitters, Lemon
1 dash Angostura Bitters
¼ ounce Simple Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce Luxardo Maraschino liqueur
½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce Combier triple sec
2 ounces Jean Grosperrin VSOP Cognac
Lemon wedge, for rimming
Sugar, for rimming
Lemon peel horse’s neck, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the lemon wedge, sugar, and lemon peel
in a cocktail tin. Use the lemon wedge to moisten the rim of a Champagne
flute and rim with the sugar. Fill the flute with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-
inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin, cover, and whip. Strain the cocktail into the
Champagne flute. Express the lemon horse’s neck over the flute, then insert
part of it into the flute so that it cascades down the side of the glass without
falling out.

CLOVER CLUB
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A gin sour with raspberry
London Dry Gin, Raspberry, Lemon, Peychaud’s Bitters, Egg White
1 egg white
¼ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Raspberry Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
2 ounces Fords gin
Peychaud’s bitters, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the Peychaud’s bitters.
Cover and dry shake vigorously. Then fill the tin with ice, cover, and shake
again. Strain the cocktail into a coupe. Once the egg white settles, use a
Japanese bitters dasher to carefully add several drops of Peychaud’s bitters
around the rim of the glass. Use a cocktail pick to connect the dots of bitters
into a half-circle.
COFFEE COCKTAIL
GLASS: Fizz
ICE: None
A classic flip that tastes like cappuccino
VSOP Cognac, Port, Demerara, Egg
1 whole egg
½ ounce Demerara Simple Syrup (this page)
1 ounce Jean Grosperrin VSOP Cognac
1½ ounces Taylor Fladgate 10-Year tawny port
Nutmeg, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the nutmeg in a cocktail tin. Close the tin
and dry shake to emulsify the egg into the cocktail. Fill the tin with ice, cover
again, and shake vigorously. Strain the cocktail into a fizz glass. Once the egg
settles, use a Microplane to grate fresh nutmeg over the surface of the cocktail.
CREOLE CONTENTMENT
GLASS: Nick and Nora
ICE: None
A nutty Cognac Manhattan with cherry
Cognac, Islay Scotch, Marsala Wine, Foro Amaro, Maraschino Liqueur, Orange Bitters
1 dash House Orange Bitters (this page)
¼ ounce Luxardo Maraschino liqueur
¼ ounce Bowmore 12-Year Scotch
½ ounce Foro Amaro
1 ounce Marco De Bartoli Marsala Superiore 10-Year Riserva
1 ounce Pierre Ferrand 1840 Cognac
In a chilled mixing glass, combine all the ingredients. Fill the mixing glass
with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into a chilled Nick and
Nora glass.
DAIQUIRI
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A classic rum sour meant to be enjoyed quickly
Nicaraguan Rum, Lime, Cane Sugar
¾ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
1 ounce lime juice
2 ounces Flor de Caña 4-Year Extra Dry rum
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and
shake. Strain the cocktail into a coupe.
DEMERARA DRY FLOAT
GLASS: Explosion vessel
ICE: Crushed
A daiquiri variation with passionfruit and berries
Nicaraguan Rum, Maraschino Liqueur, Passionfruit, Lime, Mint, Raspberries
SERVES 15
3 ounces Hamilton 151 Demerara rum
3½ ounces Luxardo Maraschino Liqueur
5¼ ounces Passionfruit Syrup (this page)
5¼ ounces lime juice
10½ ounces Flor de Caña Rum 4-Year white
15 mint leaves, for garnish
20 lime wheels, for garnish
20 mint plouches, for garnish
15 raspberries, for garnish
Divide all the ingredients except the garnishes among two cocktail tins. Line
the bottom of an explosion vessel with the mint leaves, then fill halfway with
crushed ice. Line the inside of the vessel with 10 of the lime wheels, tucking
them into the crushed ice, making sure they touch but do not overlap. Fill the
explosion vessel to the top with crushed ice. Line the rim with the remaining
10 lime wheels, again tucking them into the crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch
ice cubes to each cocktail tin. Cover and whip. Strain the cocktails into the
explosion vessel and top with additional crushed ice. Garnish with the mint
plouches in the center of the vessel and add the raspberries to the immediate
left of the plouches.

DIPLOMAT
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A low-ABV Manhattan variation made with vermouth
Marseilles Dry Vermouth, Ambrato Vermouth, Maraschino Liqueur, Grapefruit Bitters
Grapefruit twist for expressing
3 dashes Scrappy’s Grapefruit bitters
1 teaspoon Luxardo Maraschino liqueur
1½ ounces Martini & Rossi Riserva Speciale Ambrato vermouth
1½ ounces Noilly Prat Extra Dry vermouth
In a chilled mixing glass, express the oils from the grapefruit twist, discard the
twist, and then add the remaining ingredients. Fill the mixing glass with 1¼-
inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into a chilled coupe.
DON’T GIVE UP THE SHIP
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A bitter and rich martini
London Dry Gin, Sweet Vermouth, Orange Curaçao, Fernet-Branca
1 teaspoon Fernet-Branca
¼ ounce Grand Marnier
1 ounce Carpano Antica Formula vermouth
2 ounces Tanqueray gin
Lemon twist, for garnish
In a chilled mixing glass, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Fill
the mixing glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into a
chilled coupe. Express the lemon twist over the drink and then insert it into
the glass.
EGG NOG
GLASS: Festive mug
ICE: None
A classic holiday nog with a kick
Venezuelan Rum, Bourbon, Blended Scotch, Cognac, Frangelico, Egg, Cream, Nutmeg
SERVES 15
6 eggs, separated
8 ounces sugar
16 ounces cream
32 ounces milk
2 ounces Frangelico
4 ounces J&B blended Scotch whisky
6 ounces Old Forester 86 bourbon
6 ounces Pierre Ferrand 1840 Cognac
6 ounces Diplomático Reserva Exclusiva rum
1 whole nutmeg
Place the egg whites in a 5-quart bowl and the egg yolks in a separate 5-quart
bowl. Add 6 ounces of the sugar to the bowl with egg yolks, then whisk until
the yolks turn pale yellow and thicken. Whisk in the cream, followed by the
milk, Frangelico, Scotch, bourbon, Cognac, and rum. Grate the nutmeg over
the top and whisk until combined.
Add the remaining 2 ounces sugar to the egg whites and whisk until stiff peaks
form. Slowly whisk into the egg yolk–spirits mixture. Reserve in an airtight
container, refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks. When ready to serve, pour a serving
into a festive mug and garnish with freshly grated nutmeg.

EL PRESIDENTE
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A rum martini with hints of fruit
Nicaraguan Rum, Chambery Blanc Vermouth, Triple Sec, Grenadine
1 barspoon Grenadine (this page)
1 barspoon Combier triple sec
1½ ounces Dolin de Chambery Blanc vermouth
1½ ounces Caña Brava rum
Grapefruit twist, for garnish
In a chilled mixing glass, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Fill
the mixing glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into a
chilled coupe. Express the grapefruit twist over the drink and then insert it
into the glass.
FOURTH DEGREE
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A richer martini with anise
London Dry Gin, Sweet Vermouth, Chambery Dry Vermouth, Absinthe
2 dashes Pernod Absinthe
½ ounce Dolin de Chambery Dry vermouth
1 ounce Carpano Antica Formula sweet vermouth
2 ounces Beefeater London dry gin
Brandied Cherry (see this page), for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the cherry in a mixing glass. Place the
cherry into a coupe. Fill the mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail
into the coupe.
GRASSHOPPER
GLASS: Nick and Nora
ICE: None
A rich and creamy mint-chocolate cocktail
Crème de Menthe, Crème de Cacao, Fernet-Branca, Cream, Mint
3 mint leaves, plus 1 mint sprig, for garnish
½ ounce Fernet-Branca
½ ounce De Kuyper crème de menthe
¾ ounce Marie Brizard crème de cacao
1 ounce heavy cream
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Fill the tin
with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Seal and shake. Strain the cocktail into a chilled Nick
and Nora glass using a hawthorne strainer and a fine tea strainer. Garnish with
the mint sprig.
GREEN BEAST
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
An absinthe sour with cucumber
Absinthe, Cucumber, Lime
2 cucumber slices, for shaking, plus whole-length cumber slice, for garnish
¾ ounce Simple Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lime juice
1 ounce Pernod Absinthe
1 ounce water
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Place a 2-inch
ice cube in a double rocks glass. Fill the tin with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Seal and
shake. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass using a hawthorne
strainer and a fine tea strainer. Roll and skewer the remaining cucumber slice
and garnish the cocktail.
HEMINGWAY DAIQUIRI
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A daiquiri variation with grapefruit bitterness
Nicaraguan Rum, Maraschino Liqueur, Grapefruit, Lime
2 lime twists, for shaking
¼ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Luxardo Maraschino liqueur
½ ounce grapefruit juice
¾ ounce lime juice
2 ounces Flor de Caña 4-Year Extra Dry rum
Combine all the ingredients in a cocktail tin. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and
shake. Strain the cocktail into a coupe.
HONI HONI
GLASS: Belgium
ICE: Crushed
A whiskey mai tai
Rye Whiskey, Bourbon, Marseilles Vermouth, Dry Curaçao, Banana Liqueur, Orgeat, Lime,
Coffee
½ ounce Giffard banana liqueur
½ ounce Pierre Ferrand Dry curaçao
½ ounce Coffee-Infused Dry Vermouth (this page)
¾ ounce lime juice
¾ ounce George Dickel rye whiskey
¾ ounce Old Forester 86 bourbon
Scant 1 ounce Orgeat (this page)
Banana leaf, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Wrap the
banana leaf on the inside of a Belgium glass and fill with crushed ice. Add
three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and whip vigorously. Strain
the cocktail into the Belgium glass using a hawthorne strainer and top with
additional crushed ice.
HUNTSMAN
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A funky vodka sour
Jamaican Rum, Vodka, Lemon, Angostura Bitters
2 dashes Angostura bitters
¾ ounce Simple Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Absolut vodka
1 ounce Smith & Cross Navy Strength Jamaican rum
Combine all the ingredients in a cocktail tin. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and
shake. Strain the cocktail into a coupe.
IMPROVED WHISKEY COCKTAIL
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
An Old-Fashioned with anise and a touch of smoke
Irish Whiskey, Islay Scotch, Blended Scotch, Maraschino Liqueur, Absinthe, Orange Bitters
3 dashes Pernod Absinthe
4 dashes House Orange Bitters (this page)
1 teaspoon Luxardo Maraschino liqueur
¼ ounce Demerara Simple Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Laphroaig 10-Year Islay Scotch
½ ounce Jameson Black Barrel Irish whiskey
1 ounce Bushmills Irish whiskey
Lemon twist, for garnish
Orange twist, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the garnishes in a mixing glass. Place a 2-
inch ice cube in a double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with ice and stir.
Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass. Express the oils from the lemon
and orange twists over the glass, and insert them in the drink.
IMPROVED WHISKEY COCKTAIL RESERVE
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
A combination of amazing whiskies showcased at their finest
Japanese Whisky, Islay Scotch, Irish Whiskey, Maraschino Liqueur, Absinthe, Orange Bitters
3 dashes Pernod absinthe
4 dashes House Orange Bitters (this page)
1 teaspoon Luxardo Maraschino liqueur
¼ ounce Demerara Simple Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Laphroaig 10-Year Islay Scotch
¾ ounce Redbreast 15-Year Irish whiskey
¾ ounce Hibiki Harmony Japanese whisky
Lemon twist, for garnish
Orange twist, for garnish
In a mixing glass, combine all the ingredients except the garnishes. Place a 2-
inch ice cube in a double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with 1¼-inch ice
cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass. Express the oils
from the lemon twist and orange twist over the glass, and insert them in the
cocktail.
JACK ROSE
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
An apple brandy sour with pomegranate
Calvados, Apple Brandy, Grenadine, Lemon, Lime
½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce lime juice
¾ ounce Grenadine (this page)
1 ounce Laird’s apple brandy
1 ounce Roger Groult 3-Year Calvados Pays d’Auge
Combine all the ingredients in a cocktail tin. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and
shake. Strain the cocktail into a coupe.
JUNGLE BIRD
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
A bitter and malty rum sour
Guyanese Rum, Blackstrap Rum, Campari, Pineapple, Lime
½ ounce Demerara Simple Syrup (this page)
½ ounce lime juice
¾ ounce Campari
1 ounce pineapple juice
1 ounce Cruzan Black Strap rum
1 ounce El Dorado 12-Year rum
2 pineapple fronds, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the pineapple fronds in a cocktail tin.
Place a 2-inch ice cube in a double rocks glass. Fill the cocktail tin with ice.
Cover and shake. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass. Garnish with
the pineapple fronds placed along the back of the glass.
MAI TAI
GLASS: Tiki mug
ICE: Crushed
A quintessential tiki cocktail with almond and citrus
Aged Guyanese Rum, Aged Jamaican Rum, Overproof Agricole Rum, Orange Liqueur, Orgeat,
Lime
1 lime twist
1 teaspoon Cane Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Clément Créole Shrubb Liqueur d’Orange
½ ounce Rhum J.M Blanc Agricole Martinique 100 Proof rum
¾ ounce Orgeat (this page)
¾ ounce Appleton V/X Jamaican rum
¾ ounce El Dorado 12-Year rum
1 ounce lime juice
Mint plouche, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the mint in a cocktail tin. Fill a tiki mug
with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the tin, cover, and whip.
Strain the cocktail into the tiki mug and top with additional crushed ice.
Garnish with the mint plouche.
MARTINEZ
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A richer, darker variant of the martini
Old Tom Gin, Sweet Vermouth, Angostura Bitters, Maraschino Liqueur
2 dashes Angostura bitters
1 teaspoon Luxardo Maraschino liqueur
1 ounce Carpano Antica sweet vermouth
2 ounces Hayman’s Old Tom gin
Lemon twist, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the lemon twist in a mixing glass. Fill the
mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into a coupe. Express the oils
from the lemon twist over the glass and insert it in the cocktail.
MINT JULEP
GLASS: Julep cup
ICE: Crushed
A boozy, minty, and refreshing whiskey cocktail
Bourbon, Demerara, Mint
5 mint leaves
½ ounce Demerara Simple Syrup (this page)
2½ ounces Mint-Infused Bourbon (this page)
Mint plouche, for garnish
Swab the inside of a frozen julep cup with the mint leaves, coating its sides
with the oils. Place the leaves in a cocktail tin. Fill the julep cup with crushed
ice. Add the demerara syrup and bourbon to the tin. Add three 1¼-inch ice
cubes to the tin, cover, and whip. Strain the cocktail into the julep cup. Add
crushed ice until it is level with the rim of the cup. Insert the plouche into the
julep cup. Place two small straws into the cup. Without disturbing the mint or
straws, mound crushed ice up over the rim of the cup. Be careful not to touch
the frosted sides of the julep cup.
MONTAUK
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
A lighter Negroni variation
Navy Strength Gin, Sweet Vermouth, Chambery Blanc Vermouth, Punt e Mes, Peychaud’s
Bitters
6 dashes Peychaud’s bitters
¼ ounce Carpano Punt e Mes vermouth
¾ ounce Dolin de Chambery Blanc vermouth
¾ ounce Carpano Antica Formula sweet vermouth
1 ounce Hayman’s Royal Dock gin
Lemon twist, for garnish
In a chilled mixing glass, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Place
a 2-inch ice cube in a double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with 1¼-inch
ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass. Express the
lemon twist over the cocktail and place the twist into the drink.
MORNING GLORY FIZZ
GLASS: Fizz
ICE: None
A whiskey sour with anise
Blended Scotch, Absinthe, Lemon, Egg White
1 teaspoon Pernod Absinthe, plus as a rinse
¾ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
2 ounces Chivas 12-year Scotch
1 egg white
Combine all the ingredients except the egg white and absinthe rinse in a
cocktail tin. Add the egg white to the tin, cover, and dry shake to emulsify the
egg white into the cocktail. Rinse a fizz glass by spraying it six times with
absinthe from an atomizer. Fill the tin with ice, cover again, and shake
vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the fizz glass.
NEW YORK SOUR
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A whiskey sour with mulled cider
Bourbon, Mulled Wine, Lemon, Egg White
1 egg white
¾ ounce Simple Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
1¾ ounces Elijah Craig 12-Year bourbon
¾ ounce mulled wine, to float
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the mulled wine. Seal and
dry shake to emulsify the egg white into the cocktail. Carefully open the tin
and fill with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Seal it again and shake vigorously. Strain the
cocktail into a chilled coupe using a hawthorne strainer and a fine tea strainer.
Once the egg white settles, float the mulled wine on top of the drink.
PALOMA
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
A refreshing tequila drink with grapefruit
Blanco Highlands Tequila, Mezcal, Grapefruit, Lime, Agave, Salt
1 lime wedge, for rimming and garnish
Salt, for rimming
2 ounces Seagram’s club soda, plus more to top
½ ounce Agave Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Sombra mezcal
¾ ounce lime juice
1 ounce grapefruit juice
1½ ounces Excellia Blanco tequila
Use the lime wedge to moisten the top inch of the outer rim of a highball
glass and rim half the glass with salt; reserve the wedge. Fill the glass with 1¼-
inch ice cubes, then prime it with the club soda. Add the agave syrup, mezcal,
lime juice, grapefruit juice, and tequila to a cocktail tin. Add three 1¼-inch
ice cubes to the tin, cover, and whip. Strain the cocktail into the highball
glass. Top the glass with additional club soda. Garnish with the lime wedge.
PENICILLIN
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATOR: Sammy Ross
A honeyed ginger Scotch sour
Scotch, Islay Scotch, Ginger, Honey, Lemon
¼ ounce Honey Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Spicy Ginger Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
2 ounces J&B blended Scotch whisky
¼ ounce Laphroaig 10-Year Scotch, to float
Combine all the ingredients except the Laphroaig in a cocktail tin. Place a 2-
inch ice cube in a double rocks glass. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and shake.
Strain the cocktail into the double rocks glass. Float the Laphroaig on top of
the drink.
PHILADELPHIA FISH HOUSE PUNCH
GLASS: Highball
ICE: Crushed
A rum punch with peach and ginger
Apple Brandy, Jamaican Rum, Crème de Pêche, Ginger, Lime, Orange Bitters
2 dashes House Orange Bitters (this page)
¼ ounce Massenez Crème de Pêche
¼ ounce Cruzan Black Strap rum
¼ ounce Smith & Cross Navy Strength Jamaican rum
½ ounce Appleton Signature Blend rum
¾ ounce Ginger Lime Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce Laird’s apple brandy
Mint plouche, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Fill a highball
glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover
and whip vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass and top with
additional crushed ice. Garnish with the mint plouche.
PIMM’S CUP
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
A refreshing highball with ginger and a slight bitterness
Pimm’s No. 1, Lime, Ginger, Orange, Cucumber, Mint, Angostura Bitters
2 orange half-wheels, 1 for muddling and 1 for garnish
2 cucumber slices, 1 for muddling and 1 for garnish
¼ ounce Demerara Simple Syrup (this page)
1 ounce Fever-Tree ginger ale
1 dash Angostura bitters
½ ounce Ginger Lime Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lime juice
2 ounces Pimm’s No. 1 liqueur
Mint plouche, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, muddle an orange half-wheel and a cucumber slice with the
demerara syrup. Fill a highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and prime it with
the ginger ale. Add the rest of the ingredients except the garnishes to the tin
and shake. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass. Garnish with the mint
plouche, a cucumber slice, and an orange half-wheel.
PIÑA COLADA
GLASS: Belgian
ICE: Crushed
An island concoction rounded out with coconut and pineapple
Aged Guyanese Rum, Jamaican Rum, Rhum Agricole, Coconut, Pineapple, Heavy Cream,
Angostura Bitters
¼ ounce cream
½ ounce Rhum Clément Première Canne rum
½ ounce Smith & Cross Navy Strength Jamaican rum
1 ounce Coconut Syrup (this page)
1 ounce El Dorado 15-Year rum
1½ ounces pineapple juice
3 pineapple fronds, for garnish
1 dash Angostura bitters, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the pineapple fronds and bitters in a
cocktail tin. Fill a Belgian glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes
to the tin, cover, and whip. Strain the cocktail into the Belgian glass and top
with additional crushed ice. Garnish with the pineapple fronds, inserted in a
fan shape along the back of the glass and then the bitters.
PINEAPPLE DAIQUIRI
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A classic daiquiri with pineapple
Nicaraguan Rum, Pineapple Rum, Pineapple, Lime
¾ ounce Simple Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lime juice
1 ounce pineapple juice
1 ounce Plantation pineapple rum
1 ounce Flor de Caña 4-Year Extra Dry rum
1 dash Angostura bitters, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the garnish in a cocktail tin. Fill the tin
with ice, cover, and shake. Strain the cocktail into a coupe and top with the
bitters.
PINEAPPLE JULEP
GLASS: Julep cup
ICE: Crushed
A refreshing gin cocktail with pineapple and berries
Old Tom Gin, Genever, Maraschino Liqueur, Charred Pineapple, Rhubarb, Verjus, Lemon, Mint
5 mint leaves, for shaking
1 lemon twist, for shaking
6 raspberries, 3 for shaking and 3 for garnish
1 teaspoon Cane Syrup (this page)
1 teaspoon Luxardo Maraschino liqueur
¼ ounce lemon juice
¼ ounce Rhubarb Shrub (this page)
½ ounce Fusion verjus blanc juice
½ ounce Bols genever
1 ounce Charred Pineapple Syrup (this page)
1 ounce Hayman’s Old Tom gin
½ ounce Seagram’s club soda, to float
Mint plouche, for garnish
½ slice pineapple, for garnish
Fill a julep cup with crushed ice. Place the mint leaves, lemon twist, and 3
raspberries in a cocktail tin. Add the remaining ingredients except the club
soda and garnishes. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the tin. Cover and whip
vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the julep cup using a hawthorne strainer.
Float the club soda over the top and add additional crushed ice until the ice is
level with the rim of the julep cup. Holding the mint plouche by its stem,
swat it against your palm to release its aromatic oils. Insert the plouche into
the julep cup, just along its rim. Add the ½ slice pineapple and remaining 3
raspberries next to the mint. Place two small straws into the cup next to the
mint. Pack crushed ice into a julep strainer to create a dome shape. Without
disturbing the mint or straws, flip the julep strainer and force the ice dome
down onto the julep cup to create an ice dome up over the rim of the cup. Be
careful not to touch the julep cup, so as not to disturb its frosted sides.

SHERRY COBBLER
GLASS: Highball
ICE: Crushed
A low-ABV, refreshing cobbler with a nutty finish
Fino Sherry, Pedro Ximénez Sherry, Pineapple Gomme, Lemon, Orange
2 lemon wheels, 1 for shaking and 1 for garnish
2 orange half-wheels, 1 for shaking and 1 for garnish
½ ounce Pineapple Gomme (this page)
3 ounces Lustau Jarana fino sherry
½ ounce Lustau San Emilio Pedro Ximénez sherry, to finish
Combine all the ingredients except the Pedro Ximénez and garnishes in a
cocktail tin. Fill a highball glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes
to the tin, cover, and whip vigorously, pulverizing the citrus wheels. Strain
the cocktail into the highball glass. Top with additional crushed ice to reach
the rim of the glass. Insert the remaining lemon wheel and orange half-wheel
along the back of the glass so that they are half overlapping. Mound with
additional crushed ice so that it rests against the citrus wheels high above the
rim of the glass. Finish with the Pedro Ximénez.

SHERRY PAINKILLER
GLASS: Snifter
ICE: Crushed
An easy-drinking piña colada variation with orange
Amontillado Sherry, Guatemalan Rum, Pineapple, Coconut, Orange, Lime
2 lime wedges, plus lime juice as needed
½ ounce Ron Zacapa 23 rum
½ ounce orange juice
1 ounce pineapple juice
1 ounce Coconut Syrup (this page)
2 ounces Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
Orange wheel, for garnish
3 pineapple fronds, for garnish
Squeeze the lime wedges into a jigger and then fill the jigger with lime juice
to get a heavy ¼ ounce. In a cocktail tin, combine the lime juice, lime rinds,
and remaining ingredients except the garnishes. Fill a snifter with crushed ice.
Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and whip. Strain the
cocktail into the snifter and top with additional crushed ice. Garnish with the
orange wheel and pineapple fronds.
TURF COCKTAIL
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A rich and tart martini
London Dry Gin, Marseille Dry Vermouth, Maraschino Liqueur, Orange Bitters
2 dashes House Orange Bitters (this page)
¼ ounce Luxardo Maraschino liqueur
1 ounce Noilly Prat Extra Dry vermouth
2 ounces Beefeater gin
Lemon twist, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the garnish in a mixing glass. Fill the
mixing glass with ice and stir. Strain the cocktail into a coupe. Express the oils
from the lemon twist over the glass, and insert it into the cocktail.
UP TO DATE
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A lighter Manhattan with orange
Rye Whiskey, Orange Curaçao, Sherry, Angostura and Orange Bitters
1 dash House Orange Bitters (this page)
4 dashes Angostura bitters
¼ ounce Lustau Los Arcos amontillado sherry
½ ounce Grand Marnier
1 ounce Lustau East India Solera cream sherry
1½ ounces Russell’s Reserve 6-Year rye whiskey
Lemon twist, for expressing
In a chilled mixing glass, combine all the ingredients except the lemon twist.
Fill the mixing glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into a
chilled coupe. Express the oils of the lemon twist over the drink, then discard
the twist.
VASQUEZ DAIQUIRI
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A chocolaty daiquiri
Barbadian Rum, Crème de Cacao, Coffee Amaro, Lime
¼ ounce Cane Syrup (this page)
¼ ounce Caffè Moka
¾ ounce Marie Brizard crème de cacao
¾ ounce lime juice
1½ ounces Mount Gay Black Barrel rum
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients. Fill the tin with 1¼-inch ice
cubes. Cover and shake. Strain the cocktail into a chilled coupe.
WARD 8
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
A whiskey sour with orange and pomegranate
Bonded Rye Whiskey, Grenadine, Lemon, Orange
½ ounce Grenadine (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce orange juice
2 ounces Rittenhouse bonded rye whiskey
Combine all the ingredients in a cocktail tin. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and
shake. Strain the cocktail into a coupe.
ZOMBIE FOR TWO
GLASS: Skull or 16- to 18-ounce tiki mug
ICE: Crushed
A boozy tiki cocktail with passionfruit and anise
Rums, Velvet Falernum, Absinthe, Passionfruit, Lime, Grapefruit, Pineapple, Cinnamon,
Angostura Bitters
6 dashes Angostura bitters
10 dashes Pernod Absinthe
Scant ½ ounce Ceylon Cinnamon Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Passionfruit Syrup (this page)
½ ounce grapefruit juice
½ ounce John D. Taylor’s Velvet Falernum
½ ounce Plantation pineapple rum
½ ounce Hamilton 151 Demerara rum
¾ ounce Hamilton Jamaican gold rum
¾ ounce lime juice
1 ounce pineapple juice
1 ounce Santa Teresa 1796 rum
2 lime wheels, for garnish
2 lemon wheels, for garnish
2 orange half-wheels, for garnish
Pineapple top, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the garnishes. Fill a skull
glass with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover
and whip vigorously. Strain the cocktail into the skull glass using a hawthorne
strainer and top with additional crushed ice. Insert two straws into the glass.
From the front center of the skull, garnish with a lime wheel, lemon wheel,
and orange half-wheel on each side going toward the back. Place the
pineapple top in the center back side of the skull.



BASIL-FENNEL SODA
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A refreshing highball with basil and fennel
Basil, Fennel, Lemon
½ ounce lime juice
1½ ounces lemon juice
1½ ounces Basil Fennel Syrup (this page)
2 ounces Seagram’s club soda
1 fennel frond, for garnish
Combine the lime and lemon juices and basil fennel syrup in a cocktail tin.
Fill a highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and
shake. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass. Add the club soda and garnish
with the fennel frond.
BEET UP
GLASS: Highball
ICE: Crushed
CREATORS: Matthew Hunter and Pietro Collina
An earthy sour with rich crème fraîche
Genmaicha Tea, Crème Fraîche, Beet, Cardamom, Lime, Grapefruit
2 lime wedges, for muddling
4 cardamom pods, for muddling
¼ ounce Agave Syrup (this page)
1 ounce Genmaicha Crème Fraîche (this page)
1 ounce grapefruit juice
½ ounce Seagram’s club soda
½ ounce beet juice, to float
In a cocktail tin, muddle the lime wedges. Strain the lime juice into a jigger to
measure ¼ ounce and then pour the juice back into the tin, discarding the
rest. Add the cardamom pods to the tin and lightly muddle. Add the
remaining ingredients except the club soda and beet juice. Fill a highball glass
with crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch cubes to the tin. Cover and shake. Add
the club soda to the tin. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass. Add more
crushed ice to the glass and float the beet juice on top.
CEASE AND DESIST
GLASS: Fizz
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
Our take on a classic orange creamsicle
Orange Juice, Orange Blossom Water, Cream
1 ounce Simple Syrup (this page)
1 ounce cream
3 ounces orange juice
2 ounces Seagram’s club soda
5 drops orange blossom water
Combine the simple syrup, cream, and orange juice in a cocktail tin. Cover
the tin and dry shake. Prime a fizz glass with 1 ounce of the club soda. Fill the
tin with ice, cover again, and shake. Strain the cocktail into the fizz glass. Top
with the orange blossom water and remaining club soda.
DEVLIN’S DELIGHT
GLASS: Single rocks
ICE: None
CREATOR: Eamon Rockey
A coconut-ginger flip
Almond Milk, Ginger, Coconut
¾ ounce Coconut Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce Spicy Ginger Syrup (this page)
3 ounces Pacific Organic unsweetened almond milk
Grated lime zest, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the lime zest in a cocktail tin. Fill the tin
with ice, cover, and shake. Strain the cocktail into a single rocks glass. Garnish
with the lime zest.
DEVOCION TONIC
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATORS: Leo Robitschek and Guillermo Bravo
A bitter, citrusy cof ee highball with grapefruit
Coffee, Grapefruit, Lemon, Vanilla
¼ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce Vanilla Syrup (this page)
1 ounce grapefruit juice
1 ounce Cold Brew Coffee Concentrate (this page)
2 ounces Fever-Tree tonic water
Grapefruit twist, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the tonic water and
garnish. Fill a highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the tin with 1¼-inch
ice cubes. Cover and shake. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass using a
hawthorne strainer and a fine tea strainer. Add the tonic water and garnish
with the grapefruit twist.
GINGERED ALE
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
Our take on ginger beer
Ginger, Lime, Turbinado
¾ ounce lime juice
¾ ounce Ginger Lime Syrup (this page)
1½ ounces Spicy Ginger Syrup (this page)
2 ounces Seagram’s club soda
1 lime wedge, for garnish
Combine the lime juice, ginger lime syrup, and spicy ginger syrup in a
cocktail tin. Fill a highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the tin with ice,
cover, and shake. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass and add the club
soda. Garnish with the lime wedge.
GOTHAM PARKSIDER
GLASS: Single rocks
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A maple–green tea refresher
Green Tea, Maple Syrup, Egg, Star Anise
1 egg
½ ounce Grade A maple syrup
2 ounces In Pursuit of Tea Jasmine Pearl green tea
Star anise, for garnish
Combine the egg, maple syrup, and tea in a cocktail tin. Cover the tin and dry
shake to emulsify the egg. Fill the tin with ice, cover again, and shake. Strain
the cocktail into a single rocks glass. Garnish with the star anise, grated with a
Microplane.
GUIDARA’S SOBER MANHATTAN
GLASS: Double rocks
ICE: 2-inch cube
CREATORS: Nathan O’Neill and Christina Thurston
A teetotaler’s Manhattan
Seedlip Spice, Verjus, Maple Syrup, Coffee, Walnut Bitters
2 dashes Fee Brothers black walnut bitters
1 teaspoon Cold Brew Coffee Concentrate (this page)
¼ ounce grade A maple syrup
Scant ½ ounce cherry juice
½ ounce Fusion verjus blanc juice
1½ ounces Seedlip Spice 94
Cherry, for garnish
In a mixing glass, combine all the ingredients except the garnish. Place a 2-
inch ice cube and a cherry in a double rocks glass. Fill the mixing glass with
1¼-inch ice cubes and stir. Strain the cocktail into the rocks glass.
LA PIÑA
GLASS: Fizz
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Jessica Gonzalez
A pineapple sour
Pineapple, Lime, Jalapeño, Agave
¾ ounce Jalapeño-Infused Agave Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce lime juice
1 ounce pineapple juice
1 ounce Seagram’s club soda
Combine all the ingredients except the club soda in a cocktail tin. Fill a fizz
glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and shake. Strain the
cocktail into the fizz glass and top with the club soda.
OCHA
GLASS: Fizz
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A yogurt drink with lime
Green Tea, Sheep’s Milk Yogurt, Cinnamon, Lemon, Lime
Scant ½ ounce lemon juice
½ ounce lime juice
1 ounce Ceylon Cinnamon Syrup (this page)
2 ounces Green Tea Yogurt Syrup (this page)
1½ ounces Seagram’s club soda
Lime zest, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the club soda and garnish.
Fill the tin with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Cover and shake. Pour the club soda into
the tin, then strain the cocktail into a fizz glass using a hawthorne strainer and
fine tea strainer. Garnish with lime zest.
PARADISE CITY
GLASS: Fizz
ICE: None
CREATOR: Leo Robitschek
A tropical creamsicle
Grapefruit, Vanilla, Passionfruit, Cream
½ ounce Vanilla Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Passionfruit Syrup (this page)
1 ounce grapefruit juice
1 ounce cream
2 ounces Seagram’s club soda
5 drops orange blossom water
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the club soda and orange
blossom water. Cover the tin and dry shake. Prime a fizz glass with 1 ounce of
the club soda. Fill the cocktail tin with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Cover and shake
again. Strain the cocktail into the fizz glass using a hawthorne strainer and fine
tea strainer. Top with the orange blossom water and remaining 1 ounce club
soda.
PETER PIPER
GLASS: Highball
ICE: Crushed
CREATOR: Pietro Collina
A savory and tart pineapple cooler
Pineapple, Passionfruit, Lime, Black Pepper, White Balsamic Vinegar
2 lime wedges, plus lime juice as needed
10 dashes white balsamic vinegar
½ ounce Tellicherry Black Pepper Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Passionfruit Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce pineapple juice
1½ ounces Seagram’s club soda
3 pineapple fronds, for garnish
Squeeze the lime wedges into a jigger and then fill the jigger with lime juice
until you reach ½ ounce. In a cocktail tin, combine the lime juice, lime rinds,
and remaining ingredients except the garnish. Fill a highball glass with crushed
ice. Add three 1¼-inch ice cubes to the cocktail tin. Cover and whip. Strain
the cocktail into the highball glass and top with additional crushed ice.
Garnish with the pineapple fronds.
POLKA-MAN
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Will Wyatt
A refreshing beverage with cof ee and strawberries
Strawberry, Pineapple, Grapefruit, Vanilla, Lemon, Coffee, Tonic
2 medium strawberries, 1 for muddling and 1 for garnish
¼ ounce Simple Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Vanilla Syrup (this page)
½ ounce Cold Brew Coffee Concentrate (this page)
½ ounce lemon juice
1 ounce grapefruit juice
1 ounce pineapple juice
1 ounce Fever-Tree tonic water
In a cocktail tin, muddle one of the strawberries. Add the remaining
ingredients except the tonic water and garnish. Fill a highball glass with 1¼-
inch ice cubes. Prime the highball glass with the tonic water. Fill the cocktail
tin with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Cover and shake. Strain the cocktail into the
highball glass. Garnish with the remaining strawberry.
SPRING AND TONIC
GLASS: Fizz
ICE: None
CREATORS: Pietro Collina and Matthew Hunter
A nonalcoholic gin and tonic
Seedlip Garden, Grapefruit, Yuzu, Fennel, Tonic
1 teaspoon yuzu juice
½ ounce Basil Fennel Syrup (this page)
¾ ounce grapefruit juice
1½ ounces Seedlip Garden 108
2½ ounces Fever-Tree tonic water
Lime wedge, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the tonic water and
garnish. Fill the tin with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Cover and shake. Strain the
cocktail into a fizz glass. Top with the tonic water and garnish with the lime
wedge.
UP THE ALLEY
GLASS: Coupe
ICE: None
CREATOR: Eamon Rockey
An apple and maple sour
Fuji Apple Cider, Sparkling Apple Cider, Lemon, Maple Syrup
½ ounce Grade A maple syrup
½ ounce lemon juice
2 ounces Fuji apple cider
1 ounce Duché de Longueville nonalcoholic sparkling cider
1 orange twist, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients except the sparkling cider and orange twist in a
cocktail tin. Fill the tin with ice, cover, and shake. Strain the cocktail into a
coupe glass. Top with the sparkling cider. Flame the orange twist over the
drink, then discard the twist.
YUZU ARNOLD PALMER
GLASS: Highball
ICE: 1¼-inch cubes
CREATOR: Zach Ventura
A floral and citrusy Arnold Palmer variation
Oolong Tea, Yuzu, Lemon
¼ ounce yuzu juice
¾ ounce lemon juice
¾ ounce Simple Syrup (this page)
3 ounces Sunset Oolong Cold Brew (this page)
2 ounces Seagram’s club soda
Lemon wedge, for garnish
In a cocktail tin, combine all the ingredients except the club soda and garnish.
Fill a highball glass with 1¼-inch ice cubes. Fill the tin with 1¼-inch ice
cubes. Cover and shake. Strain the cocktail into the highball glass using a
hawthorne strainer and a fine tea strainer. Top with the club soda and garnish
with the lemon wedge.


AGAVE SYRUP (2:1)
650 g organic light blue agave nectar
200 g hot water
Brix: 50
Stir the agave into the hot water until it’s fully dissolved. Let the syrup cool to
room temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1
month.
MAKES 850 G
AVOCADO SYRUP
525 mL filtered water
945 g sugar
945 mL lime juice
945 g soft avocado flesh
In a medium bowl, combine the water and sugar and stir until dissolved. Add
the lime juice and avocados, blend with an immersion blender until smooth,
and then strain through a chinois. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated,
for up to 2 days.
MAKES 3.8 L
BANANA OLOROSO
1 L Lustau Oloroso Sherry
4 overripe/black bananas, peeled
4 mg Pectin X
Blend together the sherry, bananas, and pectin. Add to a Spinzall, 375 mL at a
time, and put on continuous until the liquid becomes clear, then strain
through a chinois. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1
month.
MAKES 1 L
BASIL FENNEL SYRUP (1:1)
100 g basil leaves
100 g fennel, roughly chopped
800 g Simple Syrup (this page)
Brix: 48
Combine the basil, fennel, and simple syrup in an iSi canister. Charge it twice
using N2O (cream) chargers, shaking the canister between each charge. Allow
the canister to sit for 5 minutes and then vent by pushing the nozzle out
quickly; place a container underneath the tip to catch any liquid that may be
released. Unscrew the top of the canister. Once the liquid stops bubbling,
strain the mixture through cheesecloth or a coffee filter. Let the syrup cool to
room temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1
month.
MAKES 800 G
BRANDIED CHERRIES
400 g sugar
475 g water
Peel of 2 navel oranges, excess pith (white part) removed
120 mL lemon juice
4 whole cinnamon sticks
4 whole star anise
6 vanilla beans, split
900 g Bing cherries, washed and pitted
475 mL Germain Robin brandy
Combine the sugar, water, orange peel, lemon juice, cinnamon, star anise, and
vanilla beans in a large saucepan. Bring to a boil, then lower the heat to a
simmer. Add the cherries and simmer until heated through. Remove the
saucepan from the heat and stir in the brandy. Store the cherries and liquid in
an airtight container in the fridge for 5 days before using; the cherries will
continue to macerate and are optimal after 2 weeks. They will keep for up to
6 months.
MAKES 900 G
BROWN BUTTER FALERNUM
905 g unsalted butter, cubed
3 L John D. Taylor’s Velvet Falernum
In a large pot over medium heat, melt the butter, whisking constantly, while
the milk solids brown evenly. Continue to let brown, whisking, until the
color is as dark as an almond skin. Remove from the heat and add the velvet
falernum. Transfer the butter to a storage container and place in the freezer
until the fat has risen to the top and solidified. Remove and discard the
solidified fat cap. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1
month.
MAKES 3.5 L
CANE SYRUP (2:1)
500 g evaporated cane sugar
225 g hot water
Brix: 55
Stir the sugar into the hot water until it’s fully dissolved. Let the syrup cool to
room temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1
month.
MAKES 500 G
CASSIA CINNAMON SYRUP (1:1)
300 g cinnamon or cassia bark
800 g Simple Syrup (this page)
Brix: 48
Muddle the cinnamon until it is broken up into shards. Combine the
cinnamon and simple syrup in an iSi canister. Charge it twice using N2O
(cream) chargers, shaking the canister between each charge. Allow the canister
to sit for 5 minutes and then vent by pushing the nozzle out quickly; place a
container underneath the tip to catch any liquid that may be released.
Unscrew the top of the canister. Once the liquid stops bubbling, strain the
mixture through cheesecloth or a coffee filter. Let the syrup cool to room
temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 800 G
CELERY ROOT–INFUSED DOLIN DE CHAMBERY
BLANC VERMOUTH
500 g celery root, peeled and diced
750 mL Dolin de Chambery Blanc vermouth
Preheat the oven to 200°C/400°F and line a sheet pan with parchment paper.
Place the celery root on the prepared sheet pan and roast until dark golden
brown, 25 to 30 minutes. In a large bowl, combine the celery root and
vermouth, let steep for 1 hour, and then strain through a chinois. Store in an
airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 8 weeks.
MAKES 750 ML
CEYLON CINNAMON SYRUP (1:1)
250 g Ceylon cinnamon sticks
800 g Simple Syrup (this page)
Brix: 48
Muddle the cinnamon until it’s broken up into shards. Combine the
cinnamon and simple syrup in an iSi canister. Charge it twice using N2O
(cream) chargers, shaking the canister between each charge. Allow the canister
to sit for 5 minutes and then vent by pushing the nozzle out quickly; place a
container underneath the tip to catch any liquid that may be released.
Unscrew the top of the canister. Once the liquid stops bubbling, strain the
mixture through cheesecloth or a coffee filter. Let the syrup cool to room
temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 800 G
CHAI-INFUSED COCCHI VERMOUTH DI TORINO
30 g chai tea
750 mL Cocchi Vermouth di Torino
In a large bowl, combine the tea and vermouth, let steep for 3 to 5 minutes
(taste as you go because it becomes tannic very quickly), and then strain
through a chinois. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 6
weeks.
MAKES 750 ML
CHAI-TURMERIC SYRUP
90 g chai tea
2.7 kg hot filtered water
2.7 kg sugar
3 g xanthan gum
30 g Arabic gum
15 g turmeric
In a large container, steep the tea in the hot water for 12 minutes. Pass the
liquid through a chinois, but do not to press the loose tea, as the liquid will be
bitter. Add the sugar and stir until fully dissolved, then transfer the mixture to
a high-speed blender. While blending, sift in the xanthan gum, then the
Arabic gum, and then the turmeric. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated,
for up to 1 month.
MAKES 4 L
CHAI-TURMERIC YOGURT SYRUP
500 mL Chai-Turmeric Syrup (preceding recipe)
500 mL unsweetened sheep’s milk yogurt
In a medium bowl, combine the syrup and yogurt and stir until fully
incorporated. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 1 L
CHAMOMILE HONEY SYRUP
25 g chamomile tea
225 g hot filtered water
350 g clover honey
Brix: 60
In a large container, steep the tea in the hot water for 3 minutes. Pass the
liquid through a chinois, but do not to press the loose tea, as the liquid will be
bitter. Add the honey and stir until fully dissolved. Let the syrup cool to room
temperature. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 575 G
CHARRED PINEAPPLE SYRUP
8 pineapples, peeled, cored, and sliced into 1-inch planks
Demerara Simple Syrup (this page), as needed
Plantation pineapple rum, as needed
On a stove-top plancha or griddle, char the pineapple planks until black on
both sides. Transfer the pineapple to an ovenproof container, cover with
ovenproof plastic wrap, and place the container in a metal sheet pan. Steam in
the combi oven for 30 minutes at 70°C/158°F and 100 percent humidity.
Transfer the contents to a high-speed blender and slowly blend until
completely smooth, then strain through a chinois. Combine 1 part demerara
syrup and 1 part pineapple rum to 2 parts pineapple juice. Store in an airtight
container, refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks.
CHICKEN JUS
100 g canola oil
560 g diced onions (2 cm)
260 g peeled and diced carrots (2 cm)
260 g diced celery (2 cm)
100 g tomato paste
750 mL red wine
4.5 kg chicken wings
2.5 kg chicken feet
13.5 kg water
2 bay leaves
10 thyme sprigs
25 black peppercorns
Preheat a convection oven to 200°C/400°F, with the fan on high. In a large
roasting pan over high heat, warm the canola oil. Add the onions, carrots, and
celery and sauté until they caramelize, about 12 minutes. Add the tomato
paste and sauté until caramelized, 3 minutes more. Add the red wine and
reduce by half, about 10 minutes, then set aside. Spread the chicken wings in a
single layer on two large rimmed baking sheets and roast in the oven until
caramelized, about 50 minutes, rotating the pan once. Drain and discard any
rendered fat. Scrape the roasted wings into a large stockpot and add the
chicken feet and water. Bring to a simmer over medium heat, skimming the
stock of all impurities and fats that rise to the top. Add the vegetable mixture
to the stock, along with the bay leaves, thyme, and peppercorns. Turn the
heat to low and simmer, uncovered, for 6 hours, skimming every 30 minutes.
Strain the stock through a chinois, transfer to a large clean saucepan, and
continue to reduce over low heat until it is 1 kg. Strain the reduced jus
through a chinois and chill over an ice bath. Store in an airtight container,
refrigerated, for up to 3 days or freeze for up to 1 month.
MAKES 1 KG
CHOCOLATE SHELL
1 kg Pate a Glacer
500 g 70% dark chocolate
350 g grapeseed oil
Fill a medium pot three-fourths full with water and bring to boil. Lower the
heat to maintain a simmer. In a large mixing bowl, combine the Pate a Glacer,
chocolate, and grapeseed oil and place over the simmering water; be sure the
bowl doesn’t touch the water. Using a rubber spatula, stir continuously until
the mixture is melted and completely combined. Store in an airtight
container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 1.9 L
CACAO NIB–INFUSED PIERRE FERRAND 1840
COGNAC
150 g cacao nibs
750 mL Pierre Ferrand 1840 Cognac
Combine the cacao nibs and Cognac in an iSi canister. Charge it twice using
N2O (cream) chargers, shaking the canister between each charge. Allow the
canister to sit for 5 minutes and then vent by pushing the nozzle out quickly;
place a container underneath the tip to catch any liquid that may be released.
Unscrew the top of the canister. Once the liquid stops bubbling, strain the
mixture through cheesecloth or a coffee filter. Store in an airtight container,
refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 750 ML
COCONUT-INFUSED ABSOLUT ELYX
150 g shredded coconut
750 mL Absolut Elyx vodka
Combine the coconut and vodka in a bag and vacuum seal. Steam in the
combi oven for 30 minutes at 60°C/140°F and 100 percent humidity, then
strain through a chinois. Transfer to a storage container and place in the
freezer until the fat has risen to the top and solidified. Remove and discard the
solidified fat cap and strain the vodka through muslin. Store in an airtight
container, refrigerated, indefinitely.
MAKES 750 ML
COCONUT-INFUSED MICHTER’S BOURBON
150 g shredded coconut
750 mL Michter’s Straight Bourbon
Combine the coconut and bourbon in a bag and vacuum seal. Steam in the
combi oven for 30 minutes at 60°C/140°F and 100 percent humidity, then
strain through a chinois. Transfer to a storage container and place in the
freezer until the fat has risen to the top and solidified. Remove and discard the
solidified fat cap and strain the bourbon through muslin. Store in an airtight
container, refrigerated, indefinitely.
MAKES 750 ML
COCONUT SYRUP
200 g coconut chips, toasted
200 g coconut milk
200 g demerara sugar
Brix: 50
Toast the coconut chips for 5 minutes at 175°C/350°F, then transfer the chips
to a bowl. Warm the coconut milk in a saucepan over medium heat until it’s
just below simmering. Remove from the heat and pour it over the coconut
chips. Cover the mixture with plastic wrap and allow it to sit at room
temperature for 30 minutes. Strain the mixture through a chinois or a
superbag, pressing the coconut chips to extract all of the coconut milk. Add
the sugar and mix until completely dissolved. Let the syrup cool to room
temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 400 G
COFFEE-INFUSED ANGOSTURA BITTERS
250 mL Cold Brew Coffee Concentrate (this page)
250 mL Angostura bitters
In a medium bowl, combine the coffee concentrate and Angostura bitters and
stir until fully incorporated. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up
to 1 month.
MAKES 500 ML
COFFEE-INFUSED DRY VERMOUTH
50 g whole coffee beans
500 mL Noilly Prat Extra Dry vermouth
Crush the coffee beans in a spice mill or coffee grinder until very coarsely
ground. Put them into an iSi canister. Add the vermouth and seal the canister.
Charge it twice using N2O (cream) chargers, shaking the canister between
each charge. Allow the canister to sit for 5 minutes and then vent by
squeezing the nozzle quickly; place a container underneath the tip to catch
any liquid that may be released. Unscrew the top of the canister. Once the
liquid stops bubbling, strain the mixture through cheesecloth or a coffee filter.
Let the liquid cool to room temperature and store in an airtight container,
refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 500 ML
COLD BREW COFFEE CONCENTRATE
455 g whole coffee beans, ground to medium coarseness using a burr grinder
2 kg water
Place the ground coffee in a toddy or a ball jar, add the water, and stir gently
until all of the grounds are submerged. Be careful to not overstir, or it will
become overextracted. Cover and allow it to sit in the refrigerator for 18
hours. Strain through a coffee filter or cheesecloth. Store in an airtight
container, refrigerated, for up to 1 week.
MAKES 1.8 KG
CORN SYRUP
2.7 kg freeze-dried corn
2.8 kg sugar
3.8 L hot water
Salt
In a high-speed blender, blitz the corn into a powder. Stir the sugar into the
corn and add the hot water. Let steep for 15 minutes, then strain through a
chinois and season with salt. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up
to 2 weeks.
MAKES 3.8 TO 4.7 L
CRANBERRY SYRUP
2 kg frozen cranberries
2 kg cranberry juice
500 g demerara sugar
Brix: 50
In a large saucepan, combine the cranberries and cranberry juice and bring to
a boil over high heat. Lower the heat and simmer until all of the cranberries
have popped. Remove the saucepan from the heat and let it sit for 10
minutes. Strain the mixture through a chinois and cheesecloth or through a
superbag. Add the sugar and stir until fully dissolved. Let the syrup cool to
room temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1
month.
MAKES 1 KG
DEMERARA SIMPLE SYRUP (1:1)
225 g demerara sugar
225 g hot water
Brix: 50
Stir the sugar into the hot water until it’s fully dissolved. Let the syrup cool to
room temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1
month.
MAKES 450 G
DILL SYRUP
150 g fresh dill
800 g Simple Syrup (this page)
Brix: 48
Add the dill and simple syrup to an iSi canister. Charge it twice using N2O
(cream) chargers, shaking the canister between each charge. Allow the canister
to sit for 5 minutes and then vent by squeezing the nozzle quickly; place a
container underneath the tip to catch any liquid that may be released.
Unscrew the top of the canister. Once the liquid stops bubbling, strain the
mixture through cheesecloth or a coffee filter. Let the syrup cool to room
temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 800 G
EARL GREY SYRUP (1:1)
25 g In Pursuit of Tea Earl Grey tea
900 g hot water
800 g sugar
Brix: 48
Steep the tea in the hot water for 3 minutes. Strain the tea and add the sugar,
stirring until it’s fully dissolved. Let the syrup cool to room temperature and
store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 1.7 KG
EARL GREY–MILK WASHED EXCELLIA BLANCO
TEQUILA
25 g Earl Grey tea
750 mL Excellia Blanco tequila
15 mL lemon juice
100 mL milk
In an airtight jar, combine the tea and tequila, let steep for 20 minutes, and
then strain. In a medium saucepan over medium heat, combine the lemon
juice and milk and let simmer (do not boil) so the milk starts to curdle. Pour
the curdled mixture into the infused tequila, whisk well, and then let sit for 30
minutes. Strain the mixture through a superbag or a coffee filter. Store in
airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 2 months.
MAKES 750 ML
EUCALYPTUS BAY LEAF SYRUP
5 fresh bay leaves
1 L hot filtered water
1 kg sugar
1 g eucalyptus oil
In a large container, steep the bay leaves in the hot water for 5 minutes. Add
the sugar and stir until fully dissolved. Stir in the eucalyptus oil (it is very
potent, be sure to weigh it precisely). Pass through a chinois and let cool to
room temperature. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1
month.
MAKES 1.5 L
FIG LEAF SYRUP
75 g fresh fig leaves
900 mL hot water
800 g sugar
Brix: 50
Rinse the fig leaves thoroughly under cool running water until the water runs
clear, then remove the stems and tear up the leaves. Steep the leaves and hot
water in a container for 10 to 15 minutes (taste as you go because it becomes
bitter very quickly). Strain through a chinois and stir in the sugar until it
dissolves. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 1.4 L
GARDENIA SYRUP
1.8 kg clover honey
1.8 kg unsalted butter, cubed
140 g allspice dram
140 g Vanilla Syrup (this page)
310 g Ceylon Cinnamon Syrup (this page)
In a medium saucepan over medium heat, warm the honey until it starts to
become liquid. (Be sure it does not get too hot or it will thicken.) Add the
butter and whisk until it is melted and the mixture is smooth. Let sit for 5
minutes, then whisk in the dram, vanilla syrup, and cinnamon syrup and let
cool. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 4 weeks.
MAKES 2 L
GENMAICHA CRÈME FRAÎCHE
500 mL Green Tea Syrup (this page)
500 mL crème fraîche
In a medium bowl, combine tea syrup and crème fraîche and stir until fully
incorporated. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 1 L
GINGER LIME SYRUP
600 g water
800 g light brown sugar
300 g ginger, chopped
20 g lime zest
95 g lime juice
Brix: 50
In a medium saucepan over medium heat, combine the water, brown sugar,
and ginger and simmer for 45 minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from the
heat and add the lime zest. Allow to steep for 30 minutes. Strain out the
ginger and lime zest and add the lime juice. Let the syrup cool to room
temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 1.5 KG
GRAPEFRUIT OLEO SACCHARUM
500 g grapefruit peels
500 g sugar
Brix: 60
Combine the grapefruit peels and sugar in a bag and vacuum seal, making sure
that the peels and sugar are evenly distributed throughout the bag. Store at
room temperature for 1 week. The sugar should absorb all of the oils of the
grapefruit peels and have a syruplike consistency. If the sugar is still in
granulated form, massage the bag and allow it to sit for another day. Strain the
mixture and discard the peels. Store the syrup in an air-tight container,
refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 600 G
GREEN TEA SYRUP
90 g Genmaicha green tea
2.7 kg hot water
800 g sugar
3 g xanthan gum
30 g Arabic gum
In a large container, steep the tea in the hot water for 12 minutes. Pass the
liquid through a chinois, but do not to press the loose tea, as the liquid will be
bitter. Add the sugar and stir until fully dissolved, then transfer the mixture to
a high-speed blender. While blending at medium speed, sift in the xanthan
gum and then the Arabic gum. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for
up to 1 month..
MAKES 3.8 L
GREEN TEA YOGURT SYRUP
500 mL Green Tea Syrup (preceding recipe)
500 mL unsweetened sheep’s milk yogurt
In a medium bowl, combine the tea syrup and yogurt and stir until fully
incorporated. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 1 L
GRENADINE
500 g R.W. Knudsen organic pomegranate juice
450 g turbinado sugar or Sugar In The Raw
225 g Cortas pomegranate molasses
10 orange twists
Brix: 55
Warm the pomegranate juice and sugar in a saucepan over medium heat. Stir
until the sugar completely dissolves, making sure to never bring the juice to a
boil. Remove from the heat and add the pomegranate molasses. Express the
oils of the orange twists into the mixture and stir. Let the syrup cool to room
temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks.
MAKES 1.1 KG
GUAVA SYRUP
1 L filtered water
2 kg guava puree
Sugar as needed
Brix: 50
In a medium container, whisk together the water and guava puree. Stir in the
sugar to taste. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks.
MAKES 4.7 L
HONEY SYRUP (2:1)
350 g clover honey
225 g hot water
Brix: 60
Stir the honey into the hot water until it’s fully integrated. Let the syrup cool
to room temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to
1 month.
MAKES 575 G
HORSERADISH-INFUSED GIN
150 g horseradish, washed, peeled, and sliced lengthwise
750 mL Plymouth gin
Combine the horseradish and gin in a bag and vacuum seal. Steam in the
combi oven for 30 minutes at 60°C/140°F and 100 percent humidity, then
strain through a chinois. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 6
weeks.
MAKES 750 ML
HORSERADISH TINCTURE
150 g horseradish, washed, peeled, and diced
750 mL Absolut vodka
In a large bowl, combine the horseradish and vodka and let steep for 10
minutes, then strain through a chinois. Store in an airtight container at room
temperature indefinitely.
MAKES 750 ML
HOT CHOCOLATE BASE
1.8 kg cream
200 g water
2 g salt
4 vanilla beans, split
150 g sugar
200 g 55 percent chocolate
260 g 72 percent chocolate
In a medium saucepan, combine the cream and water. Over medium heat,
bring the mixture to just below a simmer, then remove the saucepan from the
heat. Whisk in the salt, vanilla beans, sugar, and both chocolates. Let the
mixture cool to room temperature and store in an airtight container,
refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 2.6 KG
HOUSE ORANGE BITTERS
200 g Angostura orange bitters
200 g Regans’ orange bitters No. 6
Combine both ingredients and stir. Store in an airtight container at room
temperature indefinitely.
MAKES 400 G
JALAPEÑO-INFUSED AGAVE SYRUP (2:1)
3 medium jalapeños
250 g hot water
810 g organic light blue agave nectar
Dice the jalapeños, retaining all the seeds, and steep in the hot water for 3
minutes. Taste the mixture to ensure that the spice level is to your taste.
Allow them to steep longer for a spicier end product. Strain out the jalapeños
when the desired spice level has been reached and stir the agave nectar into
the jalapeño-infused water until it’s fully integrated. Let the syrup cool to
room temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1
month.
MAKES 1.1 KG
JALAPEÑO-INFUSED TEQUILA
5 medium jalapeños, diced
750 ml Excellia Blanco tequila
Steep the jalapeños and tequila in a container for 5 minutes. Taste the mixture
to ensure that the spice level is to your taste. Allow to steep longer for a
spicier end product. Strain out the jalapeños when the desired spice level has
been reached. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, indefinitely.
MAKES 750 ML
JASMINE PEARL SYRUP (1:1)
32 g In Pursuit of Tea Jasmine Pearl green tea
900 g hot water
800 g sugar
Brix: 48
Steep the tea in the hot water for 3 minutes. Strain the tea and add the sugar,
stirring until it’s fully dissolved. Let the syrup cool to room temperature and
store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 1.7 KG
KABOCHA SQUASH SYRUP (1:1)
800 g Kabocha Squash Water (following recipe)
800 g demerara sugar
Brix: 50
In a saucepan over medium heat, heat the squash water until it’s simmering.
Remove from the heat and stir the sugar into the water until fully dissolved.
Let the syrup cool to room temperature and store in an airtight container,
refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 1.6 KG
KABOCHA SQUASH WATER
1 kabocha squash, quartered and seeded
1.6 kg water
6 g salt
15 g whole allspice
100 g Ceylon cinnamon sticks, crushed
Preheat the oven to 200°C/400°F. Place the squash on a sheet pan and roast
for 1½ hours. When cool enough to handle, scoop out the flesh of the squash,
discarding the rest. Measure out 900 g of the roasted squash and add to a
saucepan along with the water, salt, allspice, and cinnamon. Boil over high
heat for 10 minutes. Strain the mixture though a chinois. Let the water cool
to room temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to
1 week.
MAKES 1 KG
LAPSANG SOUCHONG–INFUSED DE KUYPER CRÈME
DE CACAO
30 g Lapsang Souchong black tea
1 L De Kuyper crème de cacao
Combine the tea and crème de cacao in a container and let steep for 45
minutes, then strain the mixture through a chinois. Store in an airtight
container, refrigerated, indefinitely.
MAKES 1 L
LAVENDER-INFUSED HONEY SYRUP (2:1)
10 g dried lavender flowers
350 g clover honey
225 g hot water
Brix: 60
Stir the lavender flowers and honey into the hot water until the honey is fully
dissolved. Let the syrup cool to room temperature and store in an airtight
container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 575 G
LEMON VERBENA–INFUSED BUTTERMILK
500 mL Lemon Verbena Syrup (following recipe)
500 mL buttermilk
In a medium bowl, combine the syrup and buttermilk and stir until fully
incorporated. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 1 L
LEMON VERBENA SYRUP (1:1)
32 g dried lemon verbena
900 g hot water
800 g sugar
Brix: 48
Steep the lemon verbena in the hot water for 5 minutes. Strain the mixture
and stir in the sugar until it’s fully dissolved. Let the syrup cool to room
temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 1.7 KG
MINT-INFUSED BOURBON
35 g mint leaves
750 mL Old Forester 86 bourbon
Combine the mint and bourbon in an iSi canister. Charge it twice using N2O
(cream) chargers, shaking the canister between each charge. Allow the canister
to sit for 5 minutes and then vent by pushing the nozzle out quickly; place a
container underneath the tip to catch any liquid that may be released.
Unscrew the top of the canister. Once the liquid stops bubbling, strain the
mixture through cheesecloth or a coffee filter. Store in an airtight container,
refrigerated, indefinitely.
MAKES 750 ML
MUSHROOM BROTH
100 g dried shiitake mushrooms
1 L hot water
In a large bowl, combine the mushrooms and hot water and let steep for 30
minutes. Strain the mixture through a coffee filter and let come to room
temperature. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 week.
MAKES 1 L
MUSTARD SEED-INFUSED KIKORI WHISKEY
40 g horseradish, washed, peeled, and chopped
100 g ground mustard seeds
750 mL Kikori whiskey
Combine the horseradish, mustard seeds, and whiskey in an iSi canister.
Charge it twice using N2O (cream) chargers, shaking the canister between
each charge. Allow the canister to sit for 5 minutes and then vent by pushing
the nozzle out quickly; place a container beneath the tip to catch any liquid
that may be released. Unscrew the top of the canister. Once the liquid stops
bubbling, strain the mixture through a chinois. Store in an airtight container,
refrigerated, for up to 8 weeks.
MAKES 750 ML
OLIVE OIL–WASHED TEQUILA
30 g extra-virgin olive oil
750 mL Excellia Blanco tequila
Combine the olive oil and tequila in an airtight jar. Every 30 minutes, shake
the jar for about 15 seconds. After 3 hours, put the jar in the freezer for 8
hours. Skim any solids off the top and strain the mixture through a coffee
filter. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 2 months.
MAKES 750 ML
OOLONG SYRUP
30 g Wood Dragon oolong tea
950 g hot water
800 g sugar
Brix: 50
Steep the oolong tea and hot water in a container for 12 minutes. Taste to
ensure that the mixture is to your liking. Strain through a chinois (do not
press or the tea will become too tannic) and then stir in the sugar until it is
dissolved. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 1.9 L
ORGEAT
500 g sliced almonds
800 g water
800 g sugar
20 drops orange blossom water
Brix: 50
Preheat the oven to 100°C/200°F. Spread the almonds on a sheet pan and
toast until lightly golden, about 20 minutes. Crush the almonds using a food
processor. Transfer to a large container and add the water. Allow to sit for 8
hours. Strain the mixture through cheesecloth into a bowl, squeezing the
cheesecloth to extract all the liquid. Add the sugar and orange blossom water
and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Let cool to room temperature and store in
an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 1.6 KG
PANDAN-INFUSED JOHNNIE WALKER BLACK LABEL
SCOTCH
2 pandan leaves
750 mL Johnnie Walker Black Label Scotch
Combine the pandan leaves and Scotch in a bag and vacuum seal. Steam in
the combi oven for 30 minutes at 70°C/160°F and 100 percent humidity,
then strain through a chinois. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated,
indefinitely.
MAKES 750 ML
PASSIONFRUIT SYRUP
1 kg passionfruit puree
300 g sugar
Brix: 50
In a medium bowl, stir together the passionfruit puree and sugar until fully
incorporated. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 1.3 KG
PINEAPPLE GOMME
800 g Simple Syrup (this page)
200 g diced pineapple
Brix: 48
Combine the simple syrup and pineapple in an iSi canister. Charge it twice
using N2O (cream) chargers, shaking the canister between each charge. Allow
the canister to sit for 5 minutes and then vent by pushing the nozzle out
quickly; place a container underneath the tip to catch any liquid that may be
released. Unscrew the top of the canister. Once the liquid stops bubbling,
strain the mixture through cheesecloth or a coffee filter. Let the syrup cool to
room temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1
month.
MAKES 800 G
PURPLE CORN SYRUP
1 cinnamon stick
2 whole cloves
Skin of ½ pineapple, washed
455 g dried purple corn
2.84 kg filtered water
Sugar as needed
Brix: 50
In a large pot over high heat, combine the cinnamon, cloves, pineapple skin,
corn, and water and bring to a boil. Cover the pot with aluminum foil and let
simmer for 45 minutes; the corn kernels will start to crack open. Strain the
mixture through a chinois and then stir in sugar to taste. Store in an airtight
container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 4.7 L
RAISIN-INFUSED BARBANCOURT BLANC RHUM
100 g raisins
1 L Barbancourt Blanc Rhum
Combine the raisins and rhum in a bag and vacuum seal. Steam in the combi
oven for 15 minutes at 60°C/140°F and 100 percent humidity, then strain
through a chinois. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, indefinitely.
MAKES 1 L
RASPBERRY CONSOMMÉ
300 g raspberries
Vacuum seal the raspberries in a plastic bag, then place in a combi oven. Cook
at 100°C/200°F for 1 hour with 100 percent humidity. Build a three-tier pan
apparatus with a bottom catch pan, medium perforated pan, and top pan, then
line the perforated pan with cheesecloth. Lay the raspberries in the perforated
pan and wrap with the cheesecloth. Place the top pan on top of the wrapped
raspberries, then add a 4.5- to 9-kg weight to the top pan. Allow it to sit
overnight in a refrigerator.
MAKES 225 G
RASPBERRY SYRUP (1:1)
200 g sugar
225 g Raspberry Consommé (preceding recipe)
Brix: 48
Stir the sugar into the raspberry consommé until it is fully dissolved. Let the
syrup cool to room temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated,
for up to 2 weeks.
MAKES 425 G
RED BELL PEPPER AND THAI BIRD CHILE–INFUSED
BAROLO CHINATO
4 Thai bird chiles, chopped
2 red bell peppers, seeded and chopped
1 L Cocchi Barolo Chinato
Combine the chiles, bell peppers, and chinato in an iSi canister. Charge it
twice using N2O (cream) chargers, shaking the canister between each charge.
Allow the canister to sit for 5 minutes and then vent by pushing the nozzle
out quickly; place a container underneath the tip to catch any liquid that may
be released. Unscrew the top of the canister. Once the liquid stops bubbling,
strain the mixture through cheesecloth or a coffee filter. Store in an airtight
container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 1 L
RED PEPPER AGAVE SYRUP
475 mL red pepper juice
945 mL Agave Syrup (this page)
In a large bowl, combine the red pepper juice and agave syrup and stir until
fully incorporated. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 2
weeks.
MAKES 1.4 L
RED PEPPER HONEY SYRUP
475 mL red pepper juice
2.7 kg clover honey
In a large bowl, combine the red pepper juice and honey and stir until fully
incorporated. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks.
MAKES 1.4 L
RHUBARB SHRUB
40 g salt
200 g sugar
1 kg white balsamic vinegar
1.02 kg water
950 g rhubarb, washed and cut into 1-inch pieces
5 drops red food coloring
In a large bowl, combine the salt, sugar, vinegar, and water and stir to make a
brine. Combine the brine and rhubarb in a bag and vacuum seal. Place the bag
in a sheet pan and steam in the combi oven for 15 minutes at 63°C/145°F and
100 percent humidity. Transfer the bag to the refrigerator and let chill, then
strain the liquid through a chinois and stir in the food coloring. Store in an
airtight container, refrigerated, indefinitely.
MAKES 2.5 L
RHUBARB SYRUP (1:1)
250 g rhubarb juice
250 g demerara sugar
Brix: 50
To make the juice, run whole stalks of rhubarb through an auger or
masticating juicer. Strain the juice through a chinois. Warm the juice in a
medium saucepan over medium heat until it’s just under a simmer. Add the
sugar and stir to dissolve. Let the syrup cool to room temperature and store in
an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks.
MAKES 500 G
ROASTED POBLANO PEPPERS
1 teaspoon olive oil
3 large poblano peppers
Preheat the broiler and line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Rub the
olive oil all over the poblanos, then place the peppers on the prepared baking
sheet. Roast until the peppers’ skin is charred, turning them four times, about
8 minutes total. Remove from the oven and let cool to room temperature,
then peel and seed the peppers. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for
up to 1 week.
MAKES ABOUT 225 G
ROASTED POBLANO PEPPER SYRUP
500 g Roasted Poblano Peppers (preceding recipe)
250 g water
300 g sugar
Brix: 50
In a high-speed blender, combine the roasted peppers and water and process
to a smooth, even consistency. Pass through a chinois and then stir in the
sugar. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks.
MAKES 500 ML
SALINE SOLUTION
50 g kosher salt
500 mL warm water
In a large bowl, combine the salt and water and stir until the salt is fully
dissolved. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, indefinitely.
MAKES 500 ML
SARSAPARILLA TINCTURE
500 g neutral alcohol, such as vodka or Everclear
250 g dried sarsaparilla root
Combine the alcohol and sarsaparilla in an airtight container and allow it to sit
at room temperature for 10 days. Don’t allow the tincture to steep for too
long, as it will become increasingly woody, tannic, and astringent. Strain
through a chinois and store in an airtight container at room temperature
indefinitely.
MAKES 500 G
SIMPLE SYRUP (1:1)
200 g sugar
225 g hot water
Brix: 48
Stir the sugar into the hot water until it is fully dissolved. Let the syrup cool to
room temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1
month.
MAKES 425 G
SORREL-INFUSED DOLIN DE CHAMBERY BLANC
VERMOUTH
100 g sorrel
750 mL Dolin Blanc vermouth
Blend the sorrel and vermouth together using a high-speed blender. Strain the
liquid, add it to a bag, and seal using a cryovac. Place the bag into a water bath
with an immersion circulator that has been preheated to 60°C/145°F.
Remove the bag after 30 minutes and place it in a water bath until it reaches
room temperature. Strain the vermouth through a coffee filter and store in an
airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 2 months.
MAKES 750 ML
SPICED TOMATO WATER
2 medium jalapeños, seeded
8 stalks celery, diced
20 lemon thyme leaves
100 bay leaves
40 g grated horseradish
2 kg tomatoes, diced
Salt
80 g lemon verbena leaves
400 g lemon juice
Line the bottom of a perforated bucket with muslin and set over another clean
container. In a large bowl, combine the jalapeños, celery, lemon thyme leaves,
bay leaves, horseradish, tomatoes, and 30 g salt. Blend with an immersion
blender until liquefied, then pour the mixture into the prepared bucket and let
drain overnight. The next day, in a medium saucepan over medium heat,
bring 900 mL of the liquid to simmer. Add the lemon verbena and let steep
for 5 minutes. Stir in the remaining liquid and the lemon juice and season
with salt, then strain through a chinois. Store in an airtight container,
refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks.
MAKES 4 L
SPICY AVUA CACHAÇA
3 medium jalapeños, seeded and sliced into rings
750 mL Avua Prata cachaça
Steep the jalapeños and cachaça in a container for 15 minutes. Taste the
mixture to ensure that the spice level is to your liking. Allow to steep longer
for a spicier end product. Strain out the jalapeños when the desired spice level
has been reached. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, indefinitely.
MAKES 750 ML
SPICY GINGER SYRUP
250 g ginger juice
250 g turbinado sugar or Sugar In The Raw
Brix: 50
To make the juice, run whole stalks of ginger through an auger or masticating
juicer. Strain the juice through a chinois and cheesecloth or through a
superbag, straining out the lighter colored starches that remain on the bottom
of the container. Warm the juice in a medium saucepan over medium heat
until it’s just under a simmer. Add the sugar and stir to dissolve. Let the syrup
cool to room temperature and store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for
up to 2 weeks.
MAKES 500 G
STRAWBERRY PICKLING LIQUID
500 g white balsamic vinegar
100 g sugar
20 g salt
510 g water
10 hulled strawberries
Combine all the ingredients except the strawberries in a saucepan and bring to
a boil. Place the strawberries in a heatproof bowl, then pour the boiling liquid
over the top. Allow the mix to cool to room temperature, then store in an
airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 450 G
SUNSET OOLONG COLD BREW
8 g Rare Tea Company Sunset Oolong Tea
1 L cold filtered water
Combine the tea and water and stir to mix. Loosely cover, let steep in the
refrigerator for 12 hours, and then strain. Store in an airtight container,
refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks.
MAKES 1 L
SZECHUAN PEPPERCORN–INFUSED GIN
100 g Szechuan peppercorns
1 L Plymouth gin
Steep the peppercorns and gin in a container for 30 minutes. Taste the
mixture to ensure that the spice level is to your liking. Allow to steep longer
for a spicier end product. Strain out the peppercorns when the desired spice
level has been reached. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, indefinitely.
MAKES 1 L
TELLICHERRY BLACK PEPPER SYRUP
150 g Tellicherry black pepper, coarsely ground
800 g Demerara Simple Syrup (this page)
Combine the pepper and simple syrup in an iSi canister. Charge it twice using
N2O (cream) chargers, shaking the canister between each charge. Allow the
canister to sit for 5 minutes and then vent by pushing the nozzle out quickly;
place a container underneath the tip to catch any liquid that may be released.
Unscrew the top of the canister. Once the liquid stops bubbling, strain the
mixture through cheesecloth or a coffee filter. Store in an airtight container,
refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 800 G
THAI BIRD CHILE–INFUSED APEROL
10 Thai bird chiles, diced
750 mL Aperol
Steep the chiles and Aperol in a container for 5 minutes. Taste the mixture to
ensure that the spice level is to your liking. Allow to steep longer for a spicier
end product. Strain out the chiles when the desired spice level has been
reached. Store in an airtight container, refrigerated, indefinitely.
MAKES 750 ML
VANILLA SYRUP
800 g Simple Syrup (this page)
3 vanilla beans, split
Combine the simple syrup and vanilla in an iSi canister. Charge it twice using
N2O (cream) chargers, shaking the canister between each charge. Allow the
canister to sit for 5 minutes and then vent by pushing the nozzle out quickly;
place a container underneath the tip to catch any liquid that may be released.
Unscrew the top of the canister. Once the liquid stops bubbling, strain the
mixture through cheesecloth or a coffee filter. Store in an airtight container,
refrigerated, for up to 1 month.
MAKES 800 G
WHEY SYRUP
900 mL yogurt whey
800 g sugar
Brix: 50
In a large bowl, combine the whey and sugar and blend with an immersion
blender until fully incorporated. Strain the mixture through a chinois. Store in
an airtight container, refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks.
MAKES 1.9 L
MAI TAI COCKTAIL EXPLOSION
GLASS: Explosion vessel
ICE: Crushed
A tart, classic rum tiki cocktail with almonds
Aged Guyanese Rum, Aged Jamaican Rum, Overproof Agricole Rum, Orange Liqueur, Orgeat,
Lime
SERVES 15
4 lime twists
4 ounces Clément Créole Shrubb Liqueur d’Orange
4 ounces Rhum J.M Blanc Agricole Martinique 100 Proof rum
6 ounces Orgeat (this page)
6 ounces Appleton V/X Jamaican rum
6 ounces El Dorado 15-Year rum
8 ounces lime juice
15 mint leaves, for garnish
20 lime wheels, for garnish
20 mint plouches, for garnish
Divide all the ingredients except the garnishes among two cocktail tins. Line
the bottom of an explosion vessel with the mint leaves, then fill halfway with
crushed ice. Line the inside of the vessel with 10 of the lime wheels, tucking
them into the crushed ice, making sure they touch but do not overlap. Fill the
explosion vessel to the top with crushed ice. Line the rim with the remaining
10 lime wheels, again tucking them into the crushed ice. Add three 1¼-inch
ice cubes to each tin. Cover and whip. Strain the cocktails into the explosion
vessel and top with additional crushed ice. Garnish with the mint plouches
around the top of the ice.

ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Managing Partner and Bar Director Leo Robitschek has been with the Make
It Nice team since 2005 and played a significant role in the development of
the group’s cocktail program at both Eleven Madison Park and The NoMad
locations in New York, Los Angeles, and Las Vegas.
A native of Venezuela, Leo first began working in hospitality while
attending the University of Miami, but it was upon moving to New York
City that his appreciation for the craft of cocktails began to come into focus.
After joining Eleven Madison Park in 2005, he helped reinvent the cocktail
program of the restaurant and was promoted to head bartender in 2009. With
an approach that stressed balance, the best ingredients, and technique, the
cocktail program echoed the same high standards as those of Chef Daniel
Humm’s kitchen.
Since opening NoMad New York in 2012, Leo and his team have been the
recipients of numerous Tales of the Cocktail Foundation Spirited Awards as
well as the James Beard Award for Outstanding Bar Program, have been
consistently ranked on the prestigious World’s 50 Best Bar List, and named
the Best Bar in North America.
ABOUT THE ILLUSTRATOR
Antoine Ricardou is the founder of Le Studio be-pôles, a boutique design
studio based in Paris and New York, which started in 2000. Be-pôles’s work
ranges from publishing projects, product design, and brand architecture to
logo and illustrative work. Antoine is responsible for the graphic identity of
The NoMad Hotel and the bespoke art program for each of the hotel’s guest
rooms and dining rooms.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Thanks to Chef Daniel Humm and Will Guidara, who helped me shape a
career and much more. In the years since I first walked into Eleven Madison
Park, I’ve built an incredible family, found my identity, and created a life that
brings me joy every day. Thank you for believing in me, even during
moments when I doubted myself. You’ve taught me that as individuals we can
achieve greatness, but as a team we can accomplish the impossible.
To Jeff Tascarella, the other managing partner and my partner all things
NoMad, I couldn’t have gotten through the expansion and last few years
without you. Thank you for making me laugh and for questioning everything
we do. You make the machine run and make us better in every way.
To Andrew Zobler, Sydell, our partners at MGM…you are the best. Thank
you for collaborating with us and supporting our crazy visions.
Aaron Ginsberg had the hard job of corralling me—getting me to sit still
and to focus on only one task—and endured the punishment of drinking with
me. Thank you.
Emily Timberlake, Julie Bennett, and Doug Ogan of Ten Speed Press, your
combined patience and expertise allowed me to write something intelligible.
Thank you for understanding my vision, providing ingenious solutions, and
allowing me to have a voice.
To Pietro Collina, my loyal right-hand man and travel partner, your
attention to detail and pursuit of excellence have helped The NoMad become
what it is today, and without you, our expansion couldn’t be possible and
would be missing a spark and a bit of flair.
To Nathan McCarley-O’Neill, our incredibly talented, hardworking, and
inspiring East Coast bar director, your tenacity ensures that we will always be
better today than we were yesterday, although sometimes your Irish brogue
makes it impossible to understand you. Thank you for elevating the team,
dreaming big, and your willingness to join me on this journey, no matter how
impossible it may seem. I know you’ll always keep running ahead of the pack.
To David Purcell, Adam George Fournier, David Bonatesta, Ivonne Moy,
and Josh Ben-Yaish, you’ve made our expansions possible with your ideas,
originality, hard work, blood, sweat, laughs, and tears.
To Matt Hunter and Jim Betz, two parts of EMP’s strong backbone and
our local curmudgeons, without your impossible standards, I couldn’t have
opened The NoMad in the first place. Thank you for making me look good.
To Laura Wagstaff, Kristen Millar, Sarah Rosenberg, and Katy Foley, my
favorite ladies, thank you for being my emotional support.
To the barbacks of The NoMad—past, present, and future—some of the
hardest-working ladies and gentlemen; the bar team would be lost without
you.
Billy Peelle III, our bar ambassador and director of operations, we love you
so much that we named a cocktail after you.
To HQ, thank you for doing the tireless work that makes all of our lives
better.
To Michael Smoley, LJ Sconzo, Shaun Dunn, Michelle Jackson, Noah
Friedman, Julia Reingold, Tyler Caffall, Matt Chavez, Gianna Johns, you are
the glue that holds The NoMad together. Thank you for being such badasses.
To the bartenders of The NoMad—past, present, and future—in my eyes,
you’re the best bar team in the world, and I couldn’t be more honored to
work alongside you.
To the leaders of The NoMad, in both the dining room and the kitchen,
who push boundaries, readily embrace collaboration, and meet every
challenge we face head-on.
To our culinary development team and pastry team, thank you for sharing
your knowledge.
To my family—Mom, Dads (Jose and Danny), Raquel, Tamara, Gloria,
Kassandra, and Arianna: Thank you for being supportive even when you
disagreed with all my decisions. You taught me to work hard and never give
up, to listen and not be afraid to have a voice. Knowing that you will always
be there to pick me up when I fall has allowed me to be brave and to take
r
i
s
k
s. I
l
o
v
e
y
o
u
a
l
l.
INDEX
A
absinthe
Green Beast
Adonis
Agave Syrup
Jalapeño-Infused Agave Syrup
Red Pepper Agave Syrup
All Betz Are Off
Amaretto Sour
Amaro Abano
Angelo and Rocco
Amaro Averna
Sippy Cup
Amelia
Angelo and Rocco
Angostura bitters
Coffee-Infused Angostura Bitters
House Orange Bitters
Spiced Carrot Colada
Anthora
Aperol
Aperol Sour
Bullingdon Club Cup
Thai Bird Chile–Infused Aperol
apple brandy
Cameo
Jack Rose
3.1
Philadelphia Fish House Punch
Scotch Dumpling
See also Calvados
aquavit
Argyle
Berry Dangerous Fix
Forbidden Dance
North Sea Oil
The Roots
Summer Jamz
Tit for Tat
Wit the Coco
Argyle
Arnold Palmer, Yuzu
atomizers
Averna
Anthora
Avo
Avocado Syrup
B
Badminton Cup
Bamboo
bananas
Banana Oloroso
Banana Stand
Barolo Chinato
Cardinale
Red Bell Pepper and Thai Bird Chile–Infused Barolo Chinato
barspoons
bartenders, non-negotiables for
basil
Basil-Fennel Soda
Basil-Fennel Syrup
Batavia Arrack
Riptide
Baudouine
Beau Four
Beekeeper
Bee Lavender
beer
Folklore
Fresa y Cervesa
Haymarket
Summer of Yes
Superbas
Beet Up
Berry Dangerous Fix
Bijou
Bijou Reserve
Birch Tree
Bitches Brew
Black Dahlia
Blacktail
Blinker
Blistered in the Sun
Block Party
Blue Hawaiian
Bohemia
bourbon
Beau Four
The Brunswick
Coconut-Infused Michter’s Bourbon
Egg Nog
Foxtrot
Honi Honi
Matchlock
Mint-Infused Bourbon
Mint Julep
New York Sour
Pico and Robinson
Pineapple Julep
Purple Dragon
Smoking Jacket
Sons of Liberty
Start Me Up
Taxi Dancer
Wheeler and Wilson
brandy
Brandied Cherries
Brandy Crusta
Honey Oat
Original Sin
See also apple brandy; Calvados; Cognac; pisco
Bread and Butternut
Broadway
Broken Spanish
Brown Butter Falernum
Brown Sugar
The Brunswick
Bullingdon Club Cup
Buttermilk, Lemon Verbena–Infused
C
Cacao Nib–Infused Pierre Ferrand 1840 Cognac
cachaça
Avo
Chi Chi Swizzle
Sergeant Pepper
Spicy Avua Cachaça
Café con Leche
Calvados
Jack Rose
Cameo
Cane Syrup
Caperetif
8th Wonder
Cardinale
Cassia Cinnamon Syrup
Cease and Desist
Celery Root–Infused Doulin de Chambery Blanc Vermouth
Ceylon Cinnamon Syrup
chai
Chai-Infused Cocchi Vermouth di Torino
Chai-Turmeric Syrup
Chai-Turmeric Yogurt Syrup
Chamomile Honey Syrup
Champagne
Cortez
Monferrato
Charlie Watts
Charred Pineapple Syrup
Cherries, Brandied
Chi Chi Swizzle
Chicken Jus
chiles. See jalapeños; poblano peppers; Thai bird chiles
chocolate
Cacao Nib–Infused Pierre Ferrand 1840 Cognac
Chocolate Shell
Ciampino
Hot Chocolate Base
Choked Up
Ciampino
cinnamon
Cassia Cinnamon Syrup
Ceylon Cinnamon Syrup
citrus
garnishes, fm.1, fm.2
juicing
Clip Joint Cup
Clover Club
Cocchi Americano
Common Thread
cocktails
building
creating
five base elements of
garnishes for, fm.1, fm.2
glassware for, fm.1, fm.2
ingredients for
techniques for
tools for
See also individual recipes
coconut
Coconut-Infused Absolut Elyx
Coconut-Infused Michter’s Bourbon
Coconut Syrup
coffee
Coffee-Infused Angostura Bitters
Coffee-Infused Dry Vermouth
Cold Brew Coffee Concentrate
Devocion Tonic
Coffee Cocktail
Cognac
Birch Tree
Brandy Crusta
Cacao Nib–Infused Pierre Ferrand 1840 Cognac
Coffee Cocktail
Creole Contentment
Dark Horse
Egg Nog
Little Dragon
Madison Park Smash
Spring Sting
Cold Brew Coffee Concentrate
Common Thread
Coq-Tail #1
Coq-Tail #2
Coq-Tail #3
Corn Syrup
Purple Corn Syrup
Cortez
Cranberry Syrup
crème de cacao
Grasshopper
Lapsang Souchong–Infused De Kuyper Crème de Cacao
crème de menthe
Grasshopper
Crème Fraiche, Genmaicha
Creole Contentment
Crooked Kilt
cucumber slices
Cup of Joe
D
Daiquiri
Hemingway Daiquiri
Pineapple Daiquiri
Vasquez Daiquiri
Danger Haus
Dark Horse
dasher bottles, fm.1, fm.2
Deli Slang
Demerara Dry Float
Demerara Simple Syrup
Detox-Retox
Devlin’s Delight
Devocion Tonic
Dewin’ It
Dill Syrup
Diplomat
Dr. Feelgood
Dr. Kananga
Dr. Walnut
Don’t Give Up the Ship
Dos Gardenias para Ti
Doyers Street
E
Earl Grey–Milk Washed Excellia Blanco Tequila
Earl Grey Syrup
Egg Nog
18th Parallel
8th Wonder
El Presidente
El Rey
El Tigre
El Tucan
English Heat
En Maison
Eucalyptus Bay Leaf Syrup
F
Falernum, Brown Butter
Far from the Tree
Fernet-Branca
Ciampino
Fig and Thistle
Fig Leaf Syrup
Five Families Frank
flamed twist
floating
Folklore
Forbidden Dance
Fortune Teller
Forty Thieves
Fourth Degree
Foxtrot
Fresa y Cervesa
G
Gardenia Syrup
garnishes, fm.1, fm.2
genever
Bohemia
Dr. Walnut
Kingsman
Maize Runner
Mother’s Little Helper
Sakura Maru
V.O.C.
Genmaicha Crème Fraiche
Gentlemen’s Exchange
The Gilsey
Gimme a Beet
gin
All Betz Are Off
Beekeeper
Bijou
Bijou Reserve
Choked Up
Clover Club
Deli Slang
Don’t Give Up the Ship
English Heat
Fourth Degree
The Gilsey
Horseradish-Infused Gin
Koala Pear
Longfellow
Martinez
Montauk
Needle and Thread
Nod to Nothing
Paris Is Burning
Petticoat
Piedmont Fizz
Scarlet Knight
South Park Sling
Szechuan Peppercorn–Infused Gin
Turf Cocktail
Walter Gibson
See also genever
ginger
Gingered Ale
Ginger Lime Syrup
Spicy Ginger Syrup
glassware, fm.1, fm.2
Golden Ticket
Gotham Parksider
Grapefruit Oleo Saccharum
Grasshopper
Green Beast
Green Streets
Green Tea Syrup
Green Tea Yogurt Syrup
Grenadine
Guava Syrup
Guidara’s Sober Manhattan
H
Hair Trigger
half-wheels
Haymarket
Hearsay
Hemingway Daiquiri
Honey Oat
Honey Syrup
Lavender-Infused Honey Syrup
Red Pepper Honey Syrup
Honi Honi
horseradish
Horseradish-Infused Gin
Horseradish Tincture
horse’s neck
Hot Broth
Hot Chocolate Base
Hot Lips
House Orange Bitters
Howie in the Jungle
Huntsman
I
ice, fm.1, fm.2
Improved Whiskey Cocktail
Improved Whiskey Cocktail Reserve
Into the Woods
Irish whiskey
Improved Whiskey Cocktail
Improved Whiskey Cocktail Reserve
Little Red Rooster
iSi canisters
Island Time
J
Jack Rose
jalapeños
Jalapeño-Infused Agave Syrup
Jalapeño-Infused Tequila
Spicy Avua Cachaça
Jane Stanley
Japanese whisky
En Maison
Improved Whiskey Cocktail Reserve
Mustard Seed–Infused Kikori Whiskey
Ringo
Jasmine Pearl Syrup
jiggers
Jitney
Jive Turkey
Joe Danger
Jungle Bird
K
kabocha squash
Kabocha Squash Syrup
Kabocha Squash Water
King’s Arms
Kingsman
Koala Pear
L
La Piña
Lapsang Souchong–Infused De Kuyper Crème de Cacao
Lavender-Infused Honey Syrup
lemon verbena
Lemon Verbena–Infused Buttermilk
Lemon Verbena Syrup
Little Dragon
Little Red Rooster
Loisaida Avenue
Longfellow
Lowrider
M
Ma Cherie
Madame Laveau
Mad Gnome
Madison Park Smash
Mai Tai
Mai Tai Cocktail Explosion
Maize Runner
Manhattan Milk Punch
Martinez
Mass A-Peelle
Matchlock
mezcal
Black Dahlia
Dr. Feelgood
El Tucan
Hearsay
Jitney
Loisaida Avenue
Lowrider
Midnight Bramble
Miles Ahead
mint
Mint-Infused Bourbon
Mint Julep
plouche
Monferrato
Montauk
Morning Glory Fizz
Mother’s Little Helper
Mott and Mulberry
muddling
Mushroom Broth
Mustard Seed–Infused Kikori Whiskey
Mynah Bird
N
Needle and Thread
New York Sour
Nod to Nothing
North Sea Oil
O
Ocha
Old Alhambra
Old Ranhofer
Olive Oil–Washed Tequila
On the Vine
Oolong Syrup
Orange Bitters, House
Orgeat
Original Sin
P
Paint It Black
Paloma
Panamericano
Pandan Express
Pandan-Infused Johnnie Walker Black Label Scotch
Paradise City
Paris Is Burning
Passionfruit Syrup
Penicillin
Peter Piper
Petticoat
Philadelphia Fish House Punch
Pico and Robinson
Piedmont Fizz
Pimm’s No. 1
Pimm’s Cup
pineapple
Charred Pineapple Syrup
La Piña
Peter Piper
Piña Colada
Pineapple Daiquiri
Pineapple Gomme
Pineapple Julep
pisco
Amelia
Green Streets
Panamericano
Rainbow Road
Sakura Maru
poblano peppers
Roasted Poblano Peppers
Roasted Poblano Pepper Syrup
Polka-Man
Punt e Mes
Angelo and Rocco
Clip Joint Cup
Purple Corn Syrup
Purple Dragon
R
Rainbow Road
Raisin-Infused Barbancourt Blanc Rhum
raspberries
Raspberry Consommé
Raspberry Syrup
Red Light
red peppers
Red Bell Pepper and Thai Bird Chile–Infused Barolo Chinato
Red Pepper Agave Syrup
Red Pepper Honey Syrup
Red Pepper–Passionfruit Daiquiri
Repossession
rhubarb
Rhubarb Shrub
Rhubarb Syrup
Ringo
Riptide
Roasted Poblano Peppers
Roasted Poblano Pepper Syrup
Rock and a Hard Place
The Roots
Rue Barbare
rum
Blue Hawaiian
Brown Sugar
Café con Leche
Charlie Watts
Charred Pineapple Syrup
Daiquiri
Dark Horse
Demerara Dry Float
Detox-Retox
Dr. Kananga
Egg Nog
18th Parallel
El Presidente
Fortune Teller
Hair Trigger
Hemingway Daiquiri
Huntsman
Island Time
Jungle Bird
Madame Laveau
Mai Tai
Mai Tai Cocktail Explosion
Mass A-Peelle
Mynah Bird
Old Ranhofer
Philadelphia Fish House Punch
Piña Colada
Pineapple Daiquiri
Raisin-Infused Barbancourt Blanc Rhum
Red Light
Red Pepper–Passionfruit Daiquiri
Shirley Heights
Spiced Carrot Colada
Thick as Thieves
Tinseltown Rebellion
Vasquez Daiquiri
Whey to Go
Zombie for Two
Runyon Canyon
rye whiskey
Bitches Brew
Blinker
Blistered in the Sun
Broadway
Doyers Street
Five Families Frank
Forty Thieves
Foxtrot
Gentlemen’s Exchange
Gimme a Beet
Honi Honi
Jive Turkey
King’s Arms
Manhattan Milk Punch
Matchlock
Miles Ahead
Mott and Mulberry
Purple Dragon
Ringo
Rock and a Hard Place
Satan’s Circus
Taxi Dancer
Up to Date
Ward 8
S
Sakura Maru
Saline Solution
salt rims
Sarsaparilla Tincture
Satan’s Circus
Scarlet Knight
Scotch
Bee Lavender
Blacktail
Crooked Kilt
Detox-Retox
Dos Gardenias para Ti
Egg Nog
Improved Whiskey Cocktail
Improved Whiskey Cocktail Reserve
Morning Glory Fizz
Old Alhambra
Pandan Express
Pandan-Infused Johnnie Walker Black Label Scotch
Penicillin
Scotch Dumpling
Vagabond
Seoul Mate
Sergeant Pepper
shaking
sherry
Adonis
Bamboo
Banana Oloroso
Banana Stand
Block Party
Bread and Butternut
Broken Spanish
Coq-Tail #3
Danger Haus
Hot Broth
Jane Stanley
Ma Cherie
Midnight Bramble
On the Vine
Seoul Mate
Sherry Cobbler
Sherry Painkiller
Shiitake Dirty to Me
Velvet Cobbler
Shiitake Dirty to Me
Shirley Heights
Shrub, Rhubarb
Shuttlecock
Simple Syrup
Demerara Simple Syrup
Sippy Cup
Smoking Jacket
Sons of Liberty
Sorrel-Infused Doulin de Chambery Blanc Vermouth
South Park Sling
Spiced Carrot Colada
Spiced Tomato Water
Spicy Avua Cachaça
Spicy Ginger Syrup
Spring and Tonic
Spring Sting
Start Me Up
stirring
strainers, fm.1, fm.2
Strawberry Pickling Liquid
sugar rims
Summer Jamz
Summer of Yes
Sunset Oolong Cold Brew
Superbas
swizzling
Szechuan Peppercorn–Infused Gin
T
Taxi Dancer
tea
Beet Up
Chamomile Honey Syrup
Earl Grey–Milk Washed Excellia Blanco Tequila
Earl Grey Syrup
Genmaicha Crème Fraiche
Gotham Parksider
Green Tea Syrup
Green Tea Yogurt Syrup
Jasmine Pearl Syrup
Lapsang Souchong–Infused De Kuyper Crème de Cacao
Ocha
Oolong Syrup
Sunset Oolong Cold Brew
Yuzu Arnold Palmer
See also chai
techniques
Tellicherry Black Pepper Syrup
tequila
Baudouine
Dewin’ It
Earl Grey–Milk Washed Excellia Blanco Tequila
El Rey
El Tigre
Far from the Tree
Fig and Thistle
Golden Ticket
Hot Lips
Jalapeño-Infused Tequila
Olive Oil–Washed Tequila
Paint It Black
Paloma
Repossession
Rue Barbare
Sergeant Pepper
Third Pedal
Tivoli
Topanga
Thai bird chiles
Red Bell Pepper and Thai Bird Chile–Infused Barolo Chinato
Thai Bird Chile–Infused Aperol
Thick as Thieves
Third Pedal
Tinseltown Rebellion
Tit for Tat
Tivoli
Tomato Water, Spiced
tools
Topanga
Turf Cocktail
twists, fm.1, fm.2
U
Up the Alley
Up to Date
V
Vagabond
Vanilla Syrup
Vasa
Vasquez Daiquiri
Velvet Cobbler
vermouth
Adonis
Celery Root–Infused Doulin de Chambery Blanc Vermouth
Chai-Infused Cocchi Vermouth di Torino
Coffee-Infused Dry Vermouth
Cup of Joe
Diplomat
Into the Woods
Joe Danger
Mad Gnome
Sorrel-Infused Doulin de Chambery Blanc Vermouth
See also Punt e Mes
V.O.C.
vodka
Block Party
Bread and Butternut
Coconut-Infused Absolut Elyx
Coq-Tail #1
Coq-Tail #2
Coq-Tail #3
Horseradish Tincture
Huntsman
Mad Gnome
Runyon Canyon
Sarsaparilla Tincture
Vasa
Walter Gibson
W
Walter Gibson
Ward 8
Wheeler and Wilson
wheels
Whey Syrup
Whey to Go
whipping
whiskey. See bourbon; Irish whiskey; Japanese whisky; rye whiskey; Scotch
wine
Badminton Cup
Shuttlecock
See also Barolo Chinato; Champagne; sherry
Wit the Coco
Y
Yuzu Arnold Palmer
Z
Zombie for Two
Zucca
Howie in the Jungle
What’s next on
your reading list?
Discover your next
great read!
Get personalized book picks and up-to-date news about this author.
Sign up now.